<p class="pindent">Shuffle the cards, and deal a new round of poker hands:
they differ in every way from the previous round, and yet it is
the same pack of cards, and the same game, with the same
spirit, the players grim-faced and silent, surrounded by a haze
of tobacco-smoke.</p>

<p class="pindent">So with this novel, a picture of civilization in Southern
California, as the writer has observed it during eleven years’
residence. The picture is the truth, and the great mass of
detail actually exists. But the cards have been shuffled; names,
places, dates, details of character, episodes—everything has been
dealt over again. The only personalities to be recognized in
this book are three presidents of the United States who have
held office during the past fifteen years. Manifestly, one could
not “shuffle” these, without destroying all sense of reality. But
the reader who spends his time seeking to identify oil magnates
and moving picture stars will be wasting time, and perhaps
doing injustice to some individual, who may happen to have
shot off his toe to collect accident insurance, but may not happen
to be keeping a mistress or to have bribed a cabinet official.</p>

<hr class="pbk" />

<p class="line" style="text-align:center;margin-top:1em;font-size:2.5em;">OIL!</p>

<p class="line" style="text-align:center;margin-bottom:1.5em;font-size:1.2em;font-style:italic;">A  Novel  by  Upton  Sinclair</p>

<hr class="tbk100" />

<div><h1 class="nobreak">CHAPTER I<br /> <span style="font-size:smaller">THE RIDE</span></h1></div>

<h3>I</h3>

<p class="pindent">The road ran, smooth and flawless, precisely fourteen feet
wide, the edges trimmed as if by shears, a ribbon of grey
concrete, rolled out over the valley by a giant hand. The ground
went in long waves, a slow ascent and then a sudden dip; you
climbed, and went swiftly over—but you had no fear, for you
knew the magic ribbon would be there, clear of obstructions,
unmarred by bump or scar, waiting the passage of inflated
rubber wheels revolving seven times a second. The cold wind
of morning whistled by, a storm of motion, a humming and
roaring with ever-shifting overtones; but you sat snug behind
a tilted wind-shield, which slid the gale up over your head.
Sometimes you liked to put your hand up, and feel the cold
impact; sometimes you would peer around the side of the
shield, and let the torrent hit your forehead, and toss your hair
about. But for the most part you sat silent and dignified—because
that was Dad’s way, and Dad’s way constituted the
ethics of motoring.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad wore an overcoat, tan in color, soft and woolly in
texture, opulent in cut, double-breasted, with big collar and big
lapels and big flaps over the pockets—every place where a
tailor could express munificence. The boy’s coat had been made
by the same tailor, of the same soft, woolly material, with the
same big collar and big lapels and big flaps. Dad wore driving
gauntlets; and the same shop had had the same kind for boys.
Dad wore horn-rimmed spectacles; the boy had never been
taken to an oculist, but he had found in a drug-store a pair of
amber-colored glasses, having horn rims the same as Dad’s.
There was no hat on Dad’s head, because he believed that wind
and sunshine kept your hair from falling out; so the boy also
rode with tumbled locks. The only difference between them,
apart from size, was that Dad had a big brown cigar, unlighted,
in the corner of his mouth; a survival of the rough old days,
when he had driven mule-teams and chewed tobacco.</p>

<p class="pindent">Fifty miles, said the speedometer; that was Dad’s rule for
open country, and he never varied it, except in wet weather.
Grades made no difference; the fraction of an ounce more
pressure with his right foot, and the car raced on—up, up, up—until
it topped the ridge, and was sailing down into the next
little valley, exactly in the centre of the magic grey ribbon of
concrete. The car would start to gather speed on the down
grade, and Dad would lift the pressure of his foot a trifle, and
let the resistance of the engine check the speed. Fifty miles
was enough, said Dad; he was a man of order.</p>

<p class="pindent">Far ahead, over the tops of several waves of ground, another
car was coming. A small black speck, it went down out of
sight, and came up bigger; the next time it was bigger yet;
the next time—it was on the slope above you, rushing at you,
faster and faster, a mighty projectile hurled out of a six-foot
cannon. Now came a moment to test the nerve of a motorist.
The magic ribbon of concrete had no stretching powers. The
ground at the sides had been prepared for emergencies, but you
could not always be sure how well it had been prepared, and
if you went off at fifty miles an hour you would get disagreeable
waverings of the wheels; you might find the neatly trimmed
concrete raised several inches above the earth at the side of it,
forcing you to run along on the earth until you could find a
place to swing in again; there might be soft sand, which would
swerve you this way and that, or wet clay which would skid
you, and put a sudden end to your journey.</p>

<p class="pindent">So the laws of good driving forbade you to go off the magic
ribbon except in extreme emergencies. You were ethically
entitled to several inches of margin at the right-hand edge; and
the man approaching you was entitled to an equal number of
inches; which left a remainder of inches between the two
projectiles as they shot by. It sounds risky as one tells it, but
the heavens are run on the basis of similar calculations, and
while collisions do happen, they leave time enough in between
for universes to be formed, and successful careers conducted
by men of affairs.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Whoosh!” went the other projectile, hurtling past; a loud,
swift “Whoosh!” with no tapering off at the end. You had
a glimpse of another man with horn-rimmed spectacles like
yourself, with a similar grip of two hands upon a steering-wheel,
and a similar cataleptic fixation of the eyes. You never
looked back; for at fifty miles an hour, your business is with
the things that lie before you, and the past is past—or shall
we say that the passed are passed? Presently would come
another car, and again it would be necessary for you to leave
the comfortable centre of the concrete ribbon, and content
yourself with a precisely estimated one-half minus a certain
number of inches. Each time, you were staking your life upon
your ability to place your car upon the exact line—and upon the
ability and willingness of the unknown other party to do the
same. You watched his projectile in the instant of hurtling at
you, and if you saw that he was not making the necessary
concession, you knew that you were encountering that most
dangerous of all two-legged mammalian creatures, the road-hog.
Or maybe it was a drunken man, or just a woman—there was
no time to find out; you had the thousandth part of a second
in which to shift your steering-wheel the tenth part of an inch,
and run your right wheels off onto the dirt.</p>

<p class="pindent">That might happen only once or twice in the course of a
day’s driving. When it did, Dad had one invariable formula;
he would shift the cigar a bit in his mouth and mutter: “Damn
fool!” It was the only cuss-word the one-time mule-driver
permitted himself in the presence of the boy; and it had no
profane significance—it was simply the scientific term for
road-hogs, and drunken men, and women driving cars; as well
as for loads of hay, and furniture-vans, and big motor-trucks
which blocked the road on curves; and for cars with trailers,
driving too rapidly, and swinging from side to side; and for
Mexicans in tumble-down buggies, who failed to keep out
on the dirt where they belonged, but came wabbling onto the
concrete—and right while a car was coming in the other
direction, so that you had to jam on your foot-brake, and grab
the hand-brake, and bring the car to a halt with a squealing
and grinding, and worse yet a sliding of tires. If there is
anything a motorist considers disgraceful it is to “skid his
tires”; and Dad had the conviction that some day there would
be a speed law turned inside out—it would be forbidden to
drive less than forty miles an hour on state highways, and
people who wanted to drive spavined horses to tumble-down
buggies would either go cross-lots or stay at home.</p>

<h3>II</h3>

<p class="pindent">A barrier of mountains lay across the road. Far off, they
had been blue, with a canopy of fog on top; they lay in tumbled
masses, one summit behind another, and more summits peeking
over, fainter in color, and mysterious. You knew you had to
go up there, and it was interesting to guess where a road might
break in. As you came nearer, the great masses changed color—green,
or grey, or tawny yellow. No trees grew upon them, but
bushes of a hundred shades. They were spotted with rocks,
black, white, brown, or red; also with the pale flames of the
yucca, a plant which reared a thick stem ten feet or more in
the air, and covered it with small flowers in a huge mass, exactly
the shape of a candle-flame, but one that never flickered in the
wind.</p>

<p class="pindent">The road began to climb in earnest; it swung around
the shoulder of a hill, and there was a sign in red letters:
“Guadalupe Grade: Speed limit on curves 15 miles per hour.”
Dad gave no evidence that he knew how to read, either that
sign, or his speedometer. Dad understood that signs were for
people who did not know how to drive; for the initiate few
the rule was, whatever speed left you on your own half of the
highway. In this case the road lay on the right side of the pass;
you had the mountain on your right, and hugged it closely as
you swung round the turns; the other fellow had the outside
edge, and in the cheerful phrase of the time, it was “his
funeral.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Another concession Dad made—wherever the bend was to
the right, so that the mass of the mountain obstructed the road,
he sounded his horn. It was a big, commanding horn, hidden
away somewhere under the capacious hood of the car; a horn
for a man whose business took him on flying trips over a
district big enough for an ancient empire; who had important
engagements waiting at the end of his journey, and who went
through, day or night, fair weather or foul. The voice of his
horn was sharp and military; there was in it no undertone of
human kindness. At fifty miles an hour there is no place for
such emotions—what you want is for people to get out of the
way, and do it quick, and you tell them so. “Whanhnh!” said
the horn—a sound you must make through your nose, for the
horn was one big nose. A sudden swing of the highway—“Whanhnh!”—and
then an elbow jutting out and another swing—“Whanhnh!”—so
you went winding up, up, and the rocky
walls of Guadalupe Pass resounded to the strange new cry—“Whanhnh!
Whanhnh!” The birds looked about in alarm,
and the ground-squirrels dived into their sandy entrance-holes,
and ranchmen driving rickety Fords down the grade, and
tourists coming to Southern California with all their chickens
and dogs and babies and mattresses and tin pans tied onto the
running-boards—these swung out to the last perilous inch of
the highway, and the low, swift roadster sped on: “Whanhnh!
Whanhnh!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Any boy will tell you that this is glorious. Whoopee! you
bet! Sailing along up there close to the clouds, with an engine
full of power, magically harnessed, subject to the faintest
pressure from the ball of your foot. The power of ninety
horses—think of that! Suppose you had had ninety horses
out there in front of you, forty-five pairs in a long line,
galloping around the side of a mountain, wouldn’t that make
your pulses jump? And this magic ribbon of concrete laid
out for you, winding here and there, feeling its way upward
with hardly a variation of grade, taking off the shoulder of a
mountain, cutting straight through the apex of another, diving
into the black belly of a third; twisting, turning, tilting inward
on the outside curves, tilting outward on the inside curves,
so that you were always balanced, always safe—and with a
white-painted line marking the centre, so that you always knew
exactly where you had a right to be—what magic had done
all this?</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad had explained it—money had done it. Men of money
had said the word, and surveyors and engineers had come, and
diggers by the thousand, swarming Mexicans and Indians,
bronze of skin, armed with picks and shovels; and great steam
shovels with long hanging lobster-claws of steel; derricks with
wide swinging arms, scrapers and grading machines, steel drills
and blasting men with dynamite, rock-crushers, and concrete
mixers that ate sacks of cement by the thousand, and drank
water from a flour-stained hose, and had round steel bellies
that turned all day with a grinding noise. All these had come,
and for a year or two they had toiled, and yard by yard they
had unrolled the magic ribbon.</p>

<p class="pindent">Never since the world began had there been men of power
equal to this. And Dad was one of them; he could do things
like that, he was on his way to do something like that now. At
seven o’clock this evening, in the lobby of the Imperial Hotel
at Beach City, a man would be waiting, Ben Skutt, the oil-scout,
whom Dad described as his “lease-hound”; he would have a big
“proposition” all lined up, and the papers ready for signature.
So it was that Dad had a right to have the road clear; that was
the meaning of the sharp military voice of the horn, speaking
through its nose: “Whanhnh! Whanhnh! Dad is coming!
Get out of the way! Whanhnh! Whanhnh!”</p>

<p class="pindent">The boy sat, eager-eyed, alert; he was seeing the world, in
a fashion men had dreamed in the days of Haroun al Raschid—from
a magic horse that galloped on top of the clouds, from a
magic carpet that went sailing through the air. It was a giant’s
panorama unrolling itself; new vistas opening at every turn,
valleys curving below you, hilltops rising above you, processions
of ranges, far as your eye could reach. Now that you were
in the heart of the range, you saw that there were trees in the
deep gorges, towering old pine trees, gnarled by storms and
split by lightning; or clumps of live oaks that made pleasant
spaces like English parks. But up on the tops there was only
brush, now fresh with the brief spring green; mesquite and
sage and other desert plants, that had learned to bloom quickly,
while there was water, and then stand the long baking drought.
They were spotted with orange-colored patches of dodder, a
plant that grew in long threads like corn-silk, weaving a garment
on top of the other plants; it killed them—but there were
plenty more.</p>

<p class="pindent">Other hills were all rock, of an endless variety of color.
You saw surfaces mottled and spotted like the skins of beasts—tawny
leopards, and creatures red and grey or black and white,
whose names you did not know. There were hills made of
boulders, scattered as if giants had been throwing them in battle;
there were blocks piled up, as if the children of giants had
grown tired of play. Rocks towered like cathedral arches over
the road; through such an arch you swung out into view of a
gorge, yawning below, with a stout white barrier to protect
you as you made the turn. Out of the clouds overhead a great
bird came sailing; his wings collapsed as if he had been shot,
and he dived into the abyss. “Was that an eagle?” asked the
boy. “Buzzard,” answered Dad, who had no romance in him.</p>

<p class="pindent">Higher and higher they climbed, the engine purring softly,
one unvarying note. Underneath the wind-shield were dials and
gauges in complicated array: a speedometer with a little red
line showing exactly how fast you were going; a clock, and an
oil gauge, a gas gauge, an ammeter, and a thermometer that
mounted slowly on a long grade like this. All these things were
in Dad’s consciousness—a still more complicated machine. For,
after all, what was ninety horsepower compared with a million
dollar power? An engine might break down, but Dad’s mind
had the efficiency of an eclipse of the sun. They were due at
the top of the grade by ten o’clock; and the boy’s attitude was
that of the old farmer with a new gold watch, who stood on
his front-porch in the early morning, remarking, “If that sun
don’t get over the hill in three minutes, she’s late.”</p>

<h3>III</h3>

<p class="pindent">But something went wrong and spoiled the schedule. You
had got up into the fog, and cold white veils were sweeping
your face. You could see all right, but the fog had wet the road,
and there was clay on it, a combination that left the most
skilful driver helpless. Dad’s quick eye noted it, and he slowed
down; a fortunate thing, for the car began to slide, and almost
touched the white wooden barrier that guarded the outer
edge.</p>

<p class="pindent">They started again, creeping along, in low gear, so that they
could stop quickly; five miles the speedometer showed, then
three miles; then another slide, and Dad said “Damn”. They
wouldn’t stand that very long, the boy knew; “Chains”, he
thought, and they drew up close against the side of the hill, on
an inside curve where cars coming from either direction could
see them. The boy opened the door at his side and popped out;
the father descended gravely, and took off his overcoat and laid
it in the seat; he took off his coat and laid that in the same
way—for clothing was part of a man’s dignity, a symbol of his
rise in life, and never to be soiled or crumpled. He unfastened
his cuffs and rolled up the sleeves—each motion precisely
followed by the boy. At the rear of the car was a flat
compartment with a sloping cover, which Dad opened with a
key; one of a great number of keys, each precisely known to
him, each symbolical of efficiency and order. Having got out
the chains, and fastened them upon the rear tires, Dad wiped
his hands on the fog-laden plants by the roadside; the boy
did the same, liking the coldness of the shining globes of
water. There was a clean rag in the compartment, kept there
for drying your hands, and changed every so often. The two
donned their coats again, and resumed their places, and the car
set out, a little faster now, but still cautiously, and away off
the schedule.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Guadalupe Grade: Height of Land: Caution: Fifteen
miles per hour on curves.” So ran the sign; they were creeping
down now, in low gear, holding back the car, which resented it,
and shook impatiently. Dad had his spectacles in his lap,
because the fog had blurred them; it had filled his hair with
moisture, and was trickling down his forehead into his eyes.
It was fun to breathe it and feel the cold; it was fun to reach
over and sound the horn—Dad would let you do it now, all
you wanted. A car came creeping towards them out of the
mist, likewise tooting lustily; it was a Ford, puffing from the
climb, with steam coming out of the radiator.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then suddenly the fog grew thinner; a few wisps more,
and it was gone; they were free, and the car leaped forward
into a view—oh, wonderful! Hill below hill dropping away,
and a landscape spread out, as far as forever; you wanted
wings, so as to dive down there, to sail out over the hilltops and
the flat plains. What was the use of speed limits, and
curves, and restraining gears and brakes?—“Dry my spectacles,”
said Dad, prosaically. Scenery was all right, but he
had to keep to the right of the white-painted line on the road.
“Whanhnh! Whanhnh!” said the horn, on all the outside
curves.</p>

<p class="pindent">They slid down, and little by little the scenery disappeared;
they were common mortals, back on earth. The curves broadened
out, they left the last shoulder of the last hill, and before
them was a long, straight descent; the wind began to whistle,
and the figures to creep past the red line on the speedometer.
They were making up for lost time. Whee! How the trees
and telegraph poles went whizzing! Sixty miles now; some
people might have been scared, but no sensible person would be
scared while Dad was at the wheel.</p>

<p class="pindent">But suddenly the car began to slow up; you could feel
yourself sliding forward in your seat, and the little red line
showed fifty, forty, thirty. The road lay straight ahead, there
was no other car in sight, yet Dad’s foot was on the brake.
The boy looked up inquiringly. “Sit still,” said the man. “Don’t
look round. A speed-trap!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Oho! An adventure to make a boy’s heart jump! He
wanted to look and see, but understood that he must sit rigid,
staring out in front, utterly innocent. They had never driven
any faster than thirty miles per hour in their lives, and if any
traffic-officer thought he had seen them coming faster down the
grade, that was purely an optical delusion, the natural error
of a man whose occupation destroyed his faith in human nature.
Yes, it must be a dreadful thing to be a “speed-cop”, and have
the whole human race for your enemy! To stoop to disreputable
actions—hiding yourself in bushes, holding a stop-watch in
hand, and with a confederate at a certain measured distance
down the road, also holding a stop-watch, and with a telephone
line connecting the two of them, so they could keep tab on
motorists who passed! They had even invented a device of
mirrors, which could be set up by the roadside, so that one man
could get the flash of a car as it passed, and keep the time.
This was a trouble the motorist had to keep incessant watch
for; at the slightest sign of anything suspicious, he must slow
up quickly—and yet not too quickly—no, just a natural slowing,
such as any man would employ if he should discover that he
had accidentally, for the briefest moment, exceeded ever so
slightly the limits of complete safety in driving.</p>

<p class="pindent">“That fellow will be following us,” said Dad. He had a
little mirror mounted in front of his eyes, so that he could keep
tab on such enemies of the human race; but the boy could not
see into the mirror, so he had to sit on pins and needles, missing
the fun.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Do you see anything?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No, not yet; but he’ll come; he knows we were speeding.
He puts himself on that straight grade, because everybody goes
fast at such a place.” There you saw the debased nature of the
“speed-cop”! He chose a spot where it was perfectly safe to
go fast, and where he knew that everyone would be impatient,
having been held in so long by the curves up in the mountains,
and by the wet roads! That was how much they cared for fair
play, those “speed-cops”!</p>

<p class="pindent">They crept along at thirty miles an hour; the lawful limit
in those benighted times, back in 1912. It took all the thrill
out of motoring, and it knocked the schedule to pot. The boy
had a vision of Ben Skutt, the “lease-hound”, sitting in the
lobby of the Imperial Hotel at Beach City; there would be
others waiting, also—there were always dozens waiting, grave
matters of business with “big money” at stake. You would hear
Dad at the long distance telephone, and he would consult his
watch, and figure the number of miles to be made, and make
his appointment accordingly; and then he had to be there—nothing
must stop him. If there were a breakdown of the car,
he would take out their suit-cases, and lock the car, hail a
passing motorist and get a ride to the next town, and there rent
the best car he could find—or buy it outright if need be—and
drive on, leaving the old car to be towed in and repaired.
Nothing could stop Dad!</p>

<p class="pindent">But now he was creeping along at thirty miles! “What’s
the matter?” asked the boy, and received the answer: “Judge
Larkey!” Oh, sure enough! They were in San Geronimo
County, where the terrible Judge Larkey was sending speeders
to jail! Never would the boy forget that day, when Dad had
been compelled to put all his engagements aside, and travel
back to San Geronimo, to appear in court and be scolded by
this elderly autocrat. Most of the time you did not undergo
such indignities; you simply displayed your card to the “speed-cop”,
showing that you were a member of the Automobile Club,
and he would nod politely, and hand you a little slip with the
amount of your “bail” noted on it, proportioned to the speed
you had been caught at; you mailed a check for the amount,
and heard and thought no more about it.</p>

<p class="pindent">But here in San Geronimo County they had got nasty, and
Dad had told Judge Larkey what he thought of the custom of
setting “speed-traps”—officers hiding in the bushes and spying
on citizens; it was undignified, and taught motorists to regard
officers of the law as enemies. The Judge had tried to be smart,
and asked Dad if he had ever thought of the possibility that
burglars also might come to regard officers of the law as
enemies. The newspapers had put that on the front page all
over the state: “Oil Operator Objects to Speed Law: J.
Arnold Ross Says He Will Change It.” Dad’s friends kidded
him about that, but he stuck it out—sooner or later he was
going to make them change that law, and sure enough he
did, and you owe to him the fact that there are no more
“speed-traps,” but officers have to ride the roads in uniform,
and if you watch your little mirror, you can go as fast as you
please.</p>

<h3>IV</h3>

<p class="pindent">They came to a little house by the roadside, with a shed
that you drove under, and a round-bellied object, half glass
and half red paint, that meant gasoline for sale. “Free Air,”
read a sign, and Dad drew up, and told the man to take off
his chains. The man brought a jack and lifted the car; and the
boy, who was always on the ground the instant the car stopped,
opened the rear compartment and got out the little bag for
the chains to go in. Also he got out the “grease-gun”, and
unwrapped that. “Grease is cheaper than steel,” Dad would
say. He had many such maxims, a whole modern Book of
Proverbs which the boy learned by heart. It was not that Dad
was anxious to save the money; nor was it that he had grease
to sell and not steel; it was the general principle of doing things
right, of paying respect to a beautiful piece of machinery.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad had got out, to stretch his legs. He was a big figure
of a man, filling every inch of the opulent overcoat. His cheeks
were rosy, and always fresh from the razor; but at second
glance you noted little pockets of flesh about his eyes, and a
network of wrinkles. His hair was grey; he had had many
cares, and was getting old. His features were big and his whole
face round, but he had a solid jaw, which he could set in ugly
determination. For the most part, however, his expression was
placid, rather bovine, and his thoughts came slowly and stayed
a long time. On occasions such as the present he would show
a genial side—he liked to talk with the plain sort of folks he
met along the road, folks of his own sort, who did not notice
his extremely crude English; folks who weren’t trying to get
any money out of him—at least not enough to matter.</p>

<p class="pindent">He was pleased to tell this man at the “filling station” about
the weather up there in the pass; yes, the fog was thick—delayed
them quite a bit—bad place for skidding. Lots of cars
got into trouble up there, said the man—that soil was dobe,
slick as glass; have to trench the road better. Quite a job that,
Dad thought—taking off the side of the mountain. The man
said the fog was going now—lots of “high fog” in the month
of May, but generally it cleared up by noon. The man wanted
to know if Dad needed any gas, and Dad said no, they had got
a supply before they tackled the grade. The truth was, Dad was
particular, he didn’t like to use any gas but his own make; but
he wouldn’t say that to the man, because it might hurt the
man’s feelings.</p>

<p class="pindent">He handed the man a silver dollar for his services, and the
man started to get change, but Dad said never mind the change;
the man was quite overwhelmed by that, and put up his finger
in a kind of salute, and it was evident he realized he was dealing
with a “big man.” Dad was used to such scenes, of course,
but it never failed to bring a little glow to his heart; he went
about with a supply of silver dollars and half dollars jingling in
his pocket, so that all with whom he had dealings might share
that spiritual warmth. “Poor devils,” he would say, “they don’t
get much.” He knew, because he had been one of them, and he
never lost an opportunity to explain it to the boy. To him it
was real, and to the boy it was romantic.</p>

<p class="pindent">Behind the “filling station” was a little cabinet, decorously
marked, “Gents.” Dad called this the “emptying station”, and
that was a joke over which they chuckled. But it was a strictly
family joke, Dad explained; it must not be passed on, for other
people would be shocked by it. Other people were “queer”;
but just why they were queer was something not yet explained.</p>

<p class="pindent">They took their seats in the car, and were about to start,
when who should come riding up behind them—the “speed-cop”!
Yes, Dad was right, the man had been following them,
and he seemed to scowl when he saw them. They had no business
with him, so they drove on; doubtless he would take the
filling station as a place to hide, and watch for speeders, said
Dad. And so it proved. They had gone for a mile or two, at
their tiresome pace of thirty, when a horn sounded behind them,
and a car went swiftly by. They let it go, and half a minute
later Dad, looking into his little mirror, remarked: “Here
comes the cop!” The boy turned round, and saw the motor-cycle
pass them with a roaring of the engine. The boy leaped
up and down in the seat. “It’s a race! It’s a race! Oh, Dad,
let’s follow them!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad was not too old to have some sporting spirit left;
besides, it was a convenience to have the enemy out in front,
where you could watch him, and he couldn’t watch you. Dad’s
car leaped forward, and the figures again crept past the red
line of the speedometer—thirty-five—forty—forty-five—fifty—fifty-five.
The boy was half lifted out of his seat, his eyes
shining and his hands clenched.</p>

<p class="pindent">The concrete ribbon had come to an end; there was now a
dirt road, wide and level, winding in slow curves through a
country of gentle hills, planted in wheat. The road was rolled
hard, but there were little bumps, and the car leaped from one
to another; it was armed with springs and shock-absorbers and
“snubbers”, every invented device for easy riding. Out in front
were clouds of dust, which the wind seized and swept over the
hills; you would have thought that an army was marching there.
Now and then you got a glimpse of the speeding car, and the
motor-cycle close behind it. “He’s trying to get away! Oh,
Dad, step on her!” This was an adventure you didn’t meet
on every trip!</p>

<p class="pindent">“Damn fool!” was Dad’s comment; a man who would risk
his life to avoid paying a small fine. You couldn’t get away
from a traffic-officer, at least not on roads like this. And sure
enough, the dust clouds died, and on a straight bit of the highway,
there they were—the car drawn up at the right, and the
officer standing alongside, with his little notebook and pencil,
writing things. Dad slowed down to the innocent thirty miles
and went by. The boy would have liked to stop, and listen to
the argument inevitable on such occasions; but he knew that
the schedule took precedence, and here was the chance to make
a “get-away.” Passing the first turn, they hit it up; the boy
looked round every half minute for the next half hour, but they
saw no more of the “speed-cop.” They were again their own
law.</p>

<h3>V</h3>

<p class="pindent">Some time ago these two had witnessed a serious traffic
accident, and afterwards had appeared to testify concerning
it. The clerk of the court had called “J. Arnold Ross,” and
then, just as solemnly, “J. Arnold Ross, junior,” and the boy
had climbed into the witness-chair, and testified that he knew
the nature of an oath, and knew the traffic regulations, and
just what he had seen.</p>

<p class="pindent">That had made him, as you might say, “court-conscious.”
Whenever, in driving, anything happened that was the least
bit irregular, the boy’s imagination would elaborate it into a
court scene. “No, your honor, the man had no business on the
left side of the road; we were too close to him, he had no time
to pass the car in front of him.” Or it was: “Your honor, the
man was walking on the right side of the road at night, and
there was a car coming towards us, that had blinding lights.
You know, your honor, a man should walk on the left side of
the road at night, so that he can see the cars coming towards
him.” In the midst of these imaginings of accidents, the boy
would give a little jump; and Dad would ask, “What’s the
matter, son?” The boy would be embarrassed, because he
didn’t like to say that he had been letting his dreams run away
with him. But Dad knew, and would smile to himself; funny
kid, always imagining things, his mind jumping from one thing
to another, always excited!</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad’s mind was not like that; it got on one subject
and stayed there, and ideas came through it in slow, grave
procession; his emotions were like a furnace that took a long
time to heat up. Sometimes on these drives he would say
nothing for a whole hour; the stream of his consciousness would
be like a river that has sunk down through rocks and sand, clean
out of sight; he would be just a pervading sense of well-being,
wrapped in an opulent warm overcoat, an accessory, you might
say, of a softly purring engine running in a bath of boiling oil,
and traversing a road at fifty miles an hour. If you had taken
this consciousness apart, you would have found, not thoughts,
but conditions of physical organs, and of the weather, and of
the car, and of bank-accounts, and of the boy at his side.
Putting it into words makes it definite and separate—so you
must try to take it all at once, blended together: “I, the
driver of this car, that used to be Jim Ross, the teamster, and
J. A. Ross and Co., general merchandise at Queen Centre,
California, am now J. Arnold Ross, oil operator, and my breakfast
is about digested, and I am a little too warm in my big new
overcoat because the sun is coming out, and I have a new well
flowing four thousand barrels at Lobos River, and sixteen on
the pump at Antelope, and I’m on my way to sign a lease at
Beach City, and we’ll make up our schedule in the next couple
of hours, and ‘Bunny’ is sitting beside me, and he is well and
strong, and is going to own everything I am making, and follow
in my footsteps, except that he will never make the ugly blunders
or have the painful memories that I have, but will be wise and
perfect and do everything I say.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Meantime the mind of “Bunny” was not behaving in the
least like this, but on the contrary was leaping from theme to
theme, as a grass-hopper in a field leaps from one stalk of grass
to another. There was a jackrabbit, racing away like mad; he
had long ears, like a mule, and why were they so transparent
and pink? There was a butcher-bird, sitting on the fence; he
stretched his wings all the time, like he was yawning—what
did he mean by that? And there was a road-runner, a long lean
bird as fast as a race-horse, beautiful and glossy, black and
brown and white, with a crest and a streaming tail. Where do
you suppose he got water in these dry hills? There on the
road was a mangled corpse—a ground squirrel had tried to
cross, and a car had mashed it flat; other cars would roll over
it, till it was ground to powder and blown away by the wind.
There was no use saying anything to Dad about that—he would
remark that squirrels carried plague, or at least they had fleas
which did; every now and then there would be cases of this
disease and the newspapers would have to hush it up, because it
was bad for real estate.</p>

<p class="pindent">But the boy was thinking about the poor little mite of life
that had been so suddenly snuffed out. How cruel life was;
and how strange that things should grow, and have the power
to make themselves, out of nothing apparently—and Dad
couldn’t explain it, and said that nobody else could, you were
just here. And then came a ranch wagon in front of them,
a one-sided old thing loaded with household goods; to Dad it
was just an obstacle, but “Bunny” saw two lads of his own
age, riding in back of the load and staring at him with dull,
listless eyes. They were pale, and looked as if they hadn’t
enough to eat; and that was another thing to wonder
about, why people should be poor and nobody to help them.
It was a world you had to help yourself in, was Dad’s
explanation.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Bunny,” the every-day name of this boy, had been started
by his mother when he was little—because he was soft and
brown and warm, and she had dressed him in a soft, fuzzy
sweater, brown in color with white trimmings. Now he was
thirteen, and resented the name, but the boys cut it to “Bun,”
which was to stay with him, and which was satisfactory. He
was a pretty boy, still brown, with wavy brown hair, tumbled by
the wind, and bright brown eyes, and a good color, because he
lived outdoors. He did not go to school, but had a tutor at
home, because he was to take his father’s place in the world,
and he went on these rides in order that he might learn his
father’s business.</p>

<p class="pindent">Wonderful, endlessly wonderful, were these scenes; new
faces, new kinds of life revealed. There came towns and
villages—extraordinary towns and villages, full of people and
houses and cars and horses and signs. There were signs along
the road; guide-posts at every crossing, giving you a geography
lesson—a list of the places to which the roads led, and the
distances; you could figure your schedule, and that was a lesson
in arithmetic! There were traffic signs, warning you of danger—curves,
grades, slippery places, intersections, railroad crossings.
There were big banners across the highway, or signs
with letters made of electric lights: “Loma Vista: Welcome
to Our City.” Then, a little farther on: “Loma Vista, City
Limits: Good-bye: Come Again.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Also there were no end of advertising signs, especially
contrived to lend variety to travel. “Picture ahead; kodak as
you go,” was a frequent legend, and you looked for the picture,
but never could be sure what it was. A tire manufacturer had
set up big wooden figures of a boy waving a flag; Dad said this
boy looked like Bunny, and Bunny said he looked like a picture
of Jack London he had seen in a magazine. Another tire
manufacturer had a great open book, made of wood, and set
up at a turn of the road leading into each town; it was supposed
to be a history book, and told you something about that place—facts
at once novel and instructive: you learned that Citrus
was the location of the first orange grove in California, and
that Santa Rosita possessed the finest radium springs west of
the Rocky mountains, and that on the outskirts of Crescent City
Father Junipero Serra had converted two thousand Indians to
Christianity in the year 1769.</p>

<p class="pindent">There were people still engaged in converting, you learned;
they had gone out on the highway with pots of vari-colored
paint, and had decorated rocks and railway culverts with inscriptions:
“Prepare to meet thy God.” Then would come a
traffic sign: “Railroad crossing. Stop. Look. Listen.” The
railroad company wanted you to meet your God through some
other agency, Dad explained, because there would be damage
suits for taking religious faith too seriously. “Jesus waits,”
a boulder would proclaim; and then would come, “Chicken
Dinner, $1.” There were always funny signs about things to
eat—apparently all the world loved a meal, and became jolly
at the thought. “Hot Dog Kennels,” was an eating-place, and
“Ptomaine Tommy,” and “The Clam-Baker,” and the “Lobster-Pot.”
There were endless puns on the word inn—“Dew Drop
Inn” and “Happen Inn,” “Welcome Inn” and “Hurry Inn.”
When you went into these places you would find the spirit of
jollity rampaging on the walls: “In God we Trust, All Others
Cash.” “Don’t complain about our coffee; some day you
may be old and weak yourself.” “We have an arrangement
with our bank; the bank does not sell soup, and we do not
cash checks.”</p>

<h3>VI</h3>

<p class="pindent">They were passing through a broad valley, miles upon miles
of wheat fields, shining green in the sun; in the distance were
trees, with glimpses of a house here and there. “Are you
looking for a Home?” inquired a friendly sign. “Santa Ynez
is a place for folks. Good water, cheap land, seven churches.
See Sprouks and Knuckleson, Realtors.” And presently the
road broadened out, with a line of trees in the middle, and there
began to be houses on each side. “Drive slow and see our city;
drive fast and see our jail,” proclaimed a big board—“By Order
of the Municipal Council of Santa Ynez.” Dad slowed down
to twenty-five miles; for it was a favorite trick of town marshals
and justices of the peace to set speed-traps for motorists coming
from the country, with engines keyed up to country rates of
speed; they would haul you up and soak you a big fine—and
you had a vision of these new-style highwaymen spending your
dollars in riotous living. That was something else Dad was
going to stop, he said—such fines ought to go to the state, and
be used for road-repairs.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Business zone, 15 miles per hour.” The main street of
Santa Ynez was a double avenue, with two lines of cars parked
obliquely in the centre of it, and another line obliquely against
each curb. You crept along through a lane, watching for a
car that was backing out, and you dived into the vacant place,
just missing the fender of the car at your right. Dad got out,
and took off his overcoat, and folded it carefully, outside in,
the sleeves inside; that was something he was particular about,
having kept a general store, which included “Gents’ Clothing.”
He and Bunny laid their coats neatly in the rear compartment,
locked safe, and then strolled down the sidewalk, watching the
ranchers of Santa Ynez valley, and the goods which the stores
displayed for them. This was the United States, and the things
on sale were the things you would have seen in store-windows
on any other Main Street, the things known as “nationally
advertised products.” The ranchman drove to town in a nationally
advertised auto, pressing the accelerator with a nationally
advertised shoe; in front of the drug-store he found a display
of nationally advertised magazines, containing all the nationally
advertised advertisements of the nationally advertised articles
he would take back to the ranch.</p>

<p class="pindent">There were a few details which set this apart as a Western
town: the width of the street, the newness of the stores, the
shininess of their white paint, and the network of electric lights
hung over the centre of the street; also a man with a broad-brimmed
hat, and a stunted old Indian mumbling his lips as he
walked, and a solitary cowboy wearing “chaps.” “Elite Café,”
said a white-painted sign, reading vertically; the word “Waffles”
was painted on the window, and there was a menu tacked by the
door, so that you could see what was offered, and the prices
charged. There were tables along one side of the wall, and a
counter along the other, with a row of broad backs in shirtsleeves
and suspenders perched on top of little stools; this was
the way if you wanted quick action, so Dad and the boy took
two stools they found vacant.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad was in his element in a place like this. He liked to
“josh” the waitress; he knew all kinds of comic things to say,
funny names for things to eat. He would order his eggs “sunny
side up,” or “with their eyes open, please.” He would say,
“Wrap the baby in the blanket,” and laugh over the waitress’
effort to realize that this meant a fried egg sandwich. He would
chat with the rancher at his other side—learning about the
condition of the wheat, and the prospects of prices for the
orange and walnut crops; he was interested in everything like
this, as a man who had oil to sell, to men who would buy more
or less, according to what they got for their products. Dad
owned land, too; he was always ready to “pick up” a likely piece,
for there was oil all over Southern California, he said, and some
day there would be an empire here.</p>

<p class="pindent">But now they were behind their schedule, and no time for
play. Dad would take fried rabbit; and Bunny thought he
wouldn’t—not because of the cannibalistic suggestion, but because
of one he had seen mashed on the road that morning.
He chose roast pork—not having seen any dead pigs. So there
came on a platter two slices of meat, and mashed potatoes
scooped out in a round ball, with a hole in the top filled with
gluey brown gravy; also a spoonful of chopped up beets, and
a leaf of lettuce with apple sauce in it. The waitress had given
him an extra helping, because she liked this jolly brown kid,
with his rosy cheeks and hair tumbled by the wind, and sensitive
lips, like a girl’s, and eager brown eyes that roamed over
the place and took in everything, the signs on the wall, the
bottles of catsup and slices of pie, the fat jolly waitress, and
the tired thin one who was waiting on him. He cheered her
up by telling her about the speed-cop they had met, and the
chase they had seen. In turn she tipped them off to a speed-trap
just outside the town; the man next to Bunny had been
caught in it and fined ten dollars, so they had plenty to talk
about while Bunny finished his dinner, and his slice of raisin
pie and glass of milk. Dad gave the waitress a half dollar for
a tip, which was an unheard-of thing at a counter, and seemed
almost immoral; but she took it.</p>

<p class="pindent">They drove carefully until they were past the speed-trap;
then they “hit it up,” along a broad boulevard known as the
Mission Way, with bronze bells hanging from poles along it.
They had all kinds of picturesque names for highways in this
country; the Devil’s Garden Way and the Rim of the World
Drive, Mountain Spring Grade and Snow Creek Run, Thousand
Palm Cañon and Fig Tree John’s Road, Coyote Pass and the
Jackrabbit Trail. There was a Telegraph Road, and that was
thrilling to the boy because he had read about a battle in the
civil war for the possession of a “Telegraph Road”; when they
drove along this one, he would see infantry hiding in the
bushes and cavalry charging across the fields; he would give a
start of excitement, and Dad would ask, “What is it?”
“Nothing, Dad; I was just thinking.” Funny kid! Always
imagining things!</p>

<p class="pindent">Also, there were Spanish names, reverently cherished by the
pious “realtors” of the country. Bunny knew what these meant,
because he was studying Spanish, so that some day he would
be equipped to deal with Mexican labor. “El Camino Real”—that
meant the Royal Highway; and “Verdugo Cañon”—that
meant “executioner.” “What happened there, Dad?” But
Dad didn’t know the story; he shared the opinion of the manufacturer
of a nationally advertised automobile—that history is
mostly “bunk.”</p>

<h3>VI</h3>

<p class="pindent">The road was asphalt now; it shimmered in the heat, and
whenever it fell away before you, a mirage made it look like
water. It was lined with orange-groves; dark green shiny trees,
golden with a part of last year’s crop, and snowy white with
the new year’s blossoms. Now and then a puff of breeze blew
out, and you got a ravishing sweet odor. There were groves
of walnuts, broad trees with ample foliage, casting dark shadows
on the carefully cultivated, powdery brown soil. There were
hedges of roses, extending for long distances, eight or ten feet
high, and covered with blossoms. There were wind-breaks of
towering thin eucalyptus trees, with long wavy leaves and bark
that scales off and leaves them naked; all the world is familiar
with them in the moving pictures, where they do duty for sturdy
oaks and ancient elms and spreading chestnuts and Arabian
date-palms and cedars of Lebanon and whatever else the
scenario calls for.</p>

<p class="pindent">You had to cut your speed down here, and had to watch
incessantly; there were intersections, and lanes coming in, and
warning signs of many sorts; there was traffic both ways, and
delicate decisions to be made as to whether you could get past
the car ahead of you, before one coming in the other direction
would bear down on you and shut you in a pair of scissors. It
was exciting to watch Dad’s handling of these emergencies, to
read his intentions and watch him carry them out.</p>

<p class="pindent">There were towns every five or ten miles now, and you were
continually being slowed up by traffic, and continually being
warned to conform to a rate of movement which would have
irritated an able-bodied snail. The highway passed through
the main street of each town; the merchants arranged that,
Dad said, hoping you would get out and buy something at their
places; if the highway were shifted to the outskirts of the town,
to avoid traffic congestion, all the merchants would forthwith
move to the highway! Sometimes they would put up signs,
indicating a turn in the highway, attempting to lure the motorist
onto a business street; after you had got to the end of that
street, they would steer you back to the highway! Dad noted
such tricks with the amused tolerance of a man who had worked
them on others, but did not let anyone work them on him.</p>

<p class="pindent">Each town consisted of some tens, or hundreds, or thousands
of perfectly rectangular blocks, divided into perfectly rectangular
lots, each containing a strictly modern bungalow, with a
lawn and a housewife holding a hose. On the outskirts would
be one or more “subdivisions,” as they were called; “acreage”
was being laid out into lots, and decorated with a row of red
and yellow flags fluttering merrily in the breeze; also a row of
red and yellow signs which asked questions and answered them
with swift efficiency: “Gas? Yes.” “Water? Best ever.”
“Lights? Right.” “Restrictions? You bet.” “Schools? Under
construction.” “Scenery? Beats the Alps.”—and so on. There
would be an office or a tent by the roadside, and in front of it
an alert young man with a writing pad and a fountain-pen,
prepared to write you a contract of sale after two minutes
conversation. These subdividers had bought the land for a
thousand dollars an acre, and soon as they had set up the
fluttering little flags and the tent it became worth $1675 per
lot. This also Dad explained with amused tolerance. It was
a great country!</p>

<p class="pindent">They were coming to the outskirts of Angel City. Here
were trolley tracks and railroads, and subdivisions with no
“restrictions”—that is, you might build any kind of house you
pleased, and rent it to people of any race or color; which meant
an ugly slum, spreading like a great sore, with shanties of tin
and tar-paper and unpainted boards. There were great numbers
of children playing here—for some strange reason there seemed
to be more of them where they were least apt to thrive.</p>

<p class="pindent">By dint of constant pushing and passing every other car,
Dad had got on his schedule again. They skirted the city,
avoiding the traffic crowds in its centre, and presently came a
sign: “Beach City Boulevard.” It was a wide asphalt road,
with thousands of speeding cars, and more subdivisions and
suburban home-sites, with endless ingenious advertisements
designed to catch the fancy of the motorist, and cause him to
put on brakes. The real estate men had apparently been reading
the Arabian Nights and Grimm’s fairy-tales; they were housed
in little freak offices that shot up to a point, or tilted like a
drunken sailor; their colors orange and pink, or blue and green,
or with separately painted shingles, spotted with various colors.
There were “good eats” signs and “barbecue” signs—the latter
being a word which apparently had not been in the spelling-books
when the sign-painters went to school. There were stands
where you got orange-juice and cider, with orange-colored
wicker chairs out in front for you to sit in. There were fruit
and vegetable stands kept by Japs, and other stands with signs
inviting you to “patronize Americans.” There was simply no
end of things to look at, each separate thing bringing its separate
thrill to the mind of a thirteen-year old boy. The infinite
strangeness and fascinatingness of this variegated world! Why
do people do this, Dad? And why do they do that?</p>

<p class="pindent">They came to Beach City, with its wide avenue along the
ocean-front. Six-thirty, said the clock on the car’s running-board—exactly
on the schedule. They stopped before the
big hotel, and Bunny got out of the car, and opened the back
compartment, and the bell-hop came hopping—you bet, for he
knew Dad, and the dollars and half dollars that were jingling
in Dad’s pockets. The bell-hop grabbed the suit-cases and the
overcoats, and carried them in, and the boy followed, feeling
responsible and important, because Dad couldn’t come yet, Dad
had to put the car in a parking place. So Bunny strode in and
looked about the lobby for Ben Skutt, the oil-scout, who was
Dad’s “lease-hound.” There he was, seated in a big leather
chair, puffing at a cigar and watching the door; he got up when
he saw Bunny, and stretched his long, lean body, and twisted his
lean, ugly face into a grin of welcome. The boy, very erect,
remembering that he was J. Arnold Ross, junior, and representing
his father in an important transaction, shook hands with
the man, remarking: “Good evening, Mr. Skutt. Are the
papers ready?”</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER II<br /> <span class="sub-head">THE LEASE</span></h1></div>

<h3>I</h3>

<p class="pindent">The number of the house was 5746 Los Robles Boulevard,
and you would have had to know this land of hope in order to
realize that it stood in a cabbage field. Los Robles means “the
oaks”; and two or three miles away, where this boulevard
started in the heart of Beach City, there were four live oak
trees. But out here a bare slope of hill, quite steep, yet not too
steep to be plowed and trenched and covered with cabbages,
with sugar-beets down on the flat. The eye of hope, aided by
surveyors’ instruments, had determined that some day a broad
boulevard would run on this line; and so there was a dirt road,
and at every corner white posts set up, with a wing north and
a wing east—Los Robles Blvd.-Palomitas Ave.; Los Robles
Blvd.-El Centro Ave.; and so on.</p>

<p class="pindent">Two years ago the “subdividers” had been here, with their
outfit of little red and yellow flags; there had been full-page
advertisements in the newspapers, and free auto rides from
Beach City, and a free lunch; consisting of “hot dog”
sandwiches, a slice of apple pie, and a cup of coffee. At that
time the fields had been cleared of cabbages, and graded, and
the lots had blossomed with little signs: “Sold.” This was
supposed to refer to the lot, but in time it came to refer to the
purchaser. The company had undertaken to put in curbs and
sidewalks, water and gas and sewers; but somebody made off
with the money, and the enterprise went into bankruptcy, and
presently new signs began to appear: “For Sale, by Owner,”
or “Bargain: See Smith and Headmutton, Real Estate.” And
when these signs brought no reply, the owners sighed, and reflected
that some day when little Willie grew up he would make
a profit out of that investment. Meantime, they would accept
the proposition of Japanese truck-gardeners, to farm the land
for one-third of the crop.</p>

<p class="pindent">But three or four months ago something unexpected had
happened. A man who owned an acre or two of land on the
top of the hill had caused a couple of motor-trucks to come
toiling up the slope, loaded with large square timbers of Oregon
pine; carpenters had begun to work on these, and the neighborhood
had stared, wondering what strange kind of house
it could be. Suddenly the news had spread, in an explosion of
excitement: an oil-derrick!</p>

<p class="pindent">A deputation called upon the owner, to find out what it
meant. It was pure “wild-catting,” he assured them; he happened
to have a hundred thousand dollars to play with, and this
was his idea of play. Nevertheless, the bargain signs came down
from the cabbage fields, and were replaced by “Oil Lot for
Sale.” Speculators began to look up the names and addresses
of owners, and offers were made—there were rumors that
some had got as high as a thousand dollars, nearly twice the
original price of the lots. Motor-cars took to bumping out over
the dirt roads, up and down the lanes; and on Saturday and
Sunday afternoons there would be a crowd staring at the
derrick.</p>

<p class="pindent">The drilling began, and went on, monotonously and uneventfully.
The local newspapers reported the results: the D.
H. Culver Prospect No. 1 was at 1478 feet, in hard sandstone
formation and no signs of oil. It was the same at 2,000, and
at 3,000; and then for weeks the rig was “fishing” for a broken
drill, and everybody lost interest; it was nothing but a “dry
hole,” and people who had refused double prices for their lots
began to curse themselves for fools. “Wild-catting” was nothing
but gambling anyhow—quite different from conservative investments
in town lots. Then the papers reported that D. H.
Culver Prospect No. 1 was drilling again; it was at 3059 feet,
but the owners had not yet given up hope of striking something.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then a strange thing happened. There came trucks, heavily
loaded with stuff, carefully covered with canvas. Everybody
connected with the enterprise had been warned or bribed to
silence; but small boys peered under the canvas while the trucks
were toiling up the hill with roaring motors, and they reported
big sheets of curved metal, with holes along the edges for bolts.
That could be only one thing, tanks. And at the same time
came rumors that D. H. Culver had purchased another tract
of land on the hill. The meaning of all this was obvious:
Prospect No. 1 had got into oil-sands!</p>

<p class="pindent">The whole hill began to blossom with advertisements, and
real estate agents swarmed to the “field.” A magic word now—no
longer cabbage field or sugar-beet field, but “<span class="it">the</span> field!”
Speculators set themselves up in tents, or did business from
automobiles drawn up by the roadside, with canvas signs on
them. There was coming and going all day long, and crowds
of people gathered to stare up at the derrick, and listen to the
monotonous grinding of the heavy drill that went round and
round all day—“Ump-um—ump-um—ump-um—ump-um”—varied
by the “puff-puff” of the engine. “Keep out—this means
you!” declared a conspicuous sign; Mr. D. H. Culver and his
employees had somehow lost all their good breeding.</p>

<p class="pindent">But suddenly there was no possibility of secrecy; literally
all the world knew—for telegraph and cable carried the news
to the farthest corners of civilization. The greatest oil strike
in the history of Southern California, the Prospect Hill field!
The inside of the earth seemed to burst out through that hole;
a roaring and rushing, as Niagara, and a black column shot
up into the air, two hundred feet, two hundred and fifty—no
one could say for sure—and came thundering down to earth
as a mass of thick, black, slimy, slippery fluid. It hurled tools
and other heavy objects this way and that, so the men had to run
for their lives. It filled the sump-hole, and poured over, like
a saucepan boiling too fast, and went streaming down the
hill-side. Carried by the wind, a curtain of black mist, it sprayed
the Culver homestead, turning it black, and sending the women
of the household flying across the cabbage-fields. Afterwards
it was told with Homeric laughter how these women had been
heard to lament the destruction of their clothing and their
window-curtains by this million-dollar flood of “black gold”!</p>

<p class="pindent">Word spread by telephone to Beach City; the newspapers
bulletined it, the crowds shouted it on the street, and before
long the roads leading to Prospect Hill were black with a solid
line of motor-cars. The news reached Angel City, the papers
there put out “extras,” and before nightfall the Beach City
boulevard was crowded with cars, a double line, all coming
one way. Fifty thousand people stood in a solid ring at what
they considered a safe distance from the gusher, with emergency
policemen trying to drive them further back, and shouting:
“Lights out! Lights out!” All night those words were chanted
in a chorus; everybody realized the danger—some one fool
might forget and light a cigarette, and the whole hill-side would
leap into flame; a nail in your shoe might do it, striking on a
stone; or a motor-truck, with its steel-rimmed tires. Quite
frequently these gushers caught fire at the first moment.</p>

<p class="pindent">But still the crowds gathered; men put down the tops of
their automobiles, and stood up in the seats and conducted
auction rooms by the light of the stars. Lots were offered for
sale at fabulous prices, and some of them were bought; leases
were offered, companies were started and shares sold—the
traders would push their way out of the crowd to a safe distance
on the windward side, where they could strike a match, and
see each other’s faces, and scrawl a memorandum of what they
agreed. Such trading went on most of the night, and in the
morning came big tents that had been built for revival meetings,
and the cabbage fields became gay with red and black signs:
“Beach Co-operative No. 1,” “Skite Syndicate, No. 1, ten
thousand units, $10.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Meantime the workmen were toiling like mad to stop the
flow of the well; they staggered here and there, half-blinded
by the black spray—and with no place to brace themselves,
nothing they could hold onto, because everything was greased,
streaming with grease. You worked in darkness, groping about,
with nothing but the roar of the monster, his blows upon your
body, his spitting in your face, to tell you where he was. You
worked at high tension, for there were bonuses offered—fifty
dollars for each man if you stopped the flow before midnight,
a hundred dollars if you stopped it before ten o’clock. No one
could figure how much wealth that monster was wasting, but
it must be thousands of dollars every minute. Mr. Culver
himself pitched in to help, and in his reckless efforts lost both
of his ear-drums. “Tried to stop the flow with his head,” said a
workman, unsympathetically. In addition the owner discovered,
in the course of ensuing weeks, that he had accumulated a total
of forty-two suits for damages to houses, clothing, chickens,
goats, cows, cabbages, sugar-beets, and automobiles which had
skidded into ditches on too well-greased roads.</p>

<h3>II</h3>

<p class="pindent">The house numbered 5746 Los Robles Boulevard belonged
to Joe Groarty, night watchman for the Altmann Lumber
Company of Beach City. Mrs. Groarty had “taken in” washing
to help support her seven children; now that they were grown
up and scattered, she kept rabbits and chickens. Joe usually
left for his job at six p. m.; but on the third day after the
“strike” he had got up the nerve to give up his job, and now
he was on his front-porch, a mild, grey-haired old fellow,
wearing a black suit, with celluloid collar and black tie, his
costume for Sundays and holidays, weddings and funerals.
Mrs. Groarty had had no clothing suitable for this present
occasion, so she had been driven down-town in her husband’s
Ford, and had spent some of her oil expectations for an evening-gown
of yellow satin. Now she felt embarrassed because there
was not enough of it, either at the top where her arms and
bosom came out, or below, where her fat calves were encased
in embroidered silk stockings, so thin as to seem almost nothing.
It was what “they” were wearing, the saleswomen had assured
her; and Mrs. Groarty was grimly set upon being one of
“them.”</p>

<p class="pindent">The house was in the conventional “bungalow style,” and
had been built by a wealthier family, in the days of the real
estate boom. It had been offered at a sacrifice, and Mrs.
Groarty had fastened upon it because of the wonderful living-room.
They had put their savings into a cash payment, and
were paying the balance thirty dollars a month. They had got
a deed to the property, and were up to date on their payments,
so they were safe.</p>

<p class="pindent">When you passed the threshold of the house, the first thing
you saw was shine; the most marvelous gloss ever seen on
wood-work—and to heighten the effect the painter had made it
wavy, in imitation of the grain of oak; there must have been
ten thousand lines, each one a separate wiggle of a brush. The
fire-place was of many-colored stones, highly polished and
gleaming like jewels. In the back of the room, most striking
feature of all, was a wooden staircase, with a balustrade, also
shiny and wavy; this staircase went up, and made a turn, and
there was a platform with a palm-tree in a pot. You would
take it for granted that it was a staircase like all other staircases,
intended to take you to the second story. You might go into
the Groarty home a hundred times, and see it both day and
night, before it would occur to you there was anything wrong;
but suddenly—standing outside on some idle day—it would
flash over you that the Groarty home had a flat roof over its
entire extent, and at no part was there any second story. Then
you would go inside, inspired by a new, malignant curiosity, and
would study the staircase and landing, and realize that they
didn’t lead anywhere, their beauty was its own excuse for
being.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mrs. Groarty stood by the centre-table of her living-room,
awaiting the arrival of the expected company. There was a
bowl of roses in a vase on this table, and immediately in front
of it, conspicuous under the electric lamp, was a handsome
volume bound in blue cloth and stamped with gold letters: “The
Ladies’ Guide: A Practical Handbook of Gentility.” It was
the only book in the Groarty home, and it had been there only
two days; an intelligent clerk in the department-store, after
selling the satin robe, had mentioned to the future “oil-queen”
the existence of this bargain in the literature department. Mrs.
Groarty had been studying the volume at spare moments,
and now had it set out as an exhibit of culture.</p>

<p class="pindent">The first to arrive was the widow Murchey, who had only
to come from the end of the block, where she lived in a little
bungalow with her two children; she was frail, and timid of
manner, and wore black wristbands. She went into raptures
over Mrs. Groarty’s costume, and congratulated her on her
good fortune in being on the south slope of the hill, where one
could wear fine dresses. Over on the north side, where the
prevailing winds had blown the oil, you ruined your shoes every
time you went out. Some people still did not dare to light their
kitchen fires, for fear of an explosion.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then came the Walter Blacks, Mr. and Mrs. and their
grown son, owners of the southwest corner lot; they were in
real estate in the city. Mr. Black wore a checked suit, an
expansive manner, and a benevolent protective gold animal as
watch-fob on his ample front. Mrs. Black, also ample, had
clothes at home as good as Mrs. Groarty’s, but her manner
said that she hadn’t put them on to come out to any cabbage-patch.
They were followed by Mr. Dumpery, the carpenter,
who had a little cottage in back of the Groarty’s, fronting on
Eldorado Road, the other side of the block; Mr. Dumpery was
a quiet little man, with shoulders bowed and hands knotted
by a life-time of toil. He was not very good at figures, and
was distressed by these sudden uncertainties which had invaded
his life.</p>

<p class="pindent">Next came the Raithels, who had a candy-store in town, a
very genteel young couple, anxious to please everybody, and
much distressed because it had so far proven impossible; they
were the owners of one of the “little lots.” Then Mr. Hank,
a lean and hatchet-faced man with an exasperating voice; he
owned the next “little lot,” and because he had been a gold
miner, considered himself an authority on oil leases. After
him came his enemy, Mr. Dibble, the lawyer, who represented
the absent owner of the northwest corner, and had made trouble
by insisting on many technicalities difficult for non-lawyers to
understand; he had tried hard to separate the north half of the
block, and was regarded as a traitor by those of the south
half. Then came Mr. Golighty, one of the “medium lots.” His
occupation was not known, but he impressed everyone by his
clothing and cultured manner; he was a reconciler, with a suave,
rotund voice, and talked a great deal, the only trouble being
that when he got through you were a little uncertain as to
what he had said.</p>

<p class="pindent">The Bromleys arrived, an elderly couple of means, driving
a big car. They brought with them the Lohlkers, two little
Jewish tailors, whom ordinarily they would have talked with
only in the tailor-shop; but with these allies they controlled four
of the “medium lots,” which was sufficient for a drilling site,
and cutting right across the block, had enabled them to threaten
the rest with a separate lease. Behind them came the Sivons,
walking from their house on the northeast corner; they were
pretentious people, who looked down on the rest of the
neighborhood—and without any cause, for they drove a second-hand
car, three years out of date. They were the people who
had got this lease, and everyone was sure they were getting
a big “rake-off” on the side; but there was no way to prove
it, and nothing you could do about it, for the reason that all
the others who had brought leasing propositions had been
secretly promised a similar “rake-off.”</p>

<p class="pindent">With them came Mr. Sahm, a plasterer, who lived in a
temporary “garage-house” on the “little lot” adjoining the
Sivons. His dwelling amounted to nothing, nevertheless he had
been the one who had clamored most strenuously that the
houses should be moved at the lessor’s expense; he had even
tried to put in a provision for compensation for the rows of
beans and tomatoes he had planted on his lot. The others had
sought to hoot him down, when to their dismay the silent Mr.
Dumpery, the carpenter, arose, declaring that it seemed to him
a quite sensible request; he had seven rows of corn, himself,
and beans in full blossom, and he thought the contract should
at least contain a provision that the first well should be drilled
on some lot which was not planted, so as to give the gardeners
time to reap the benefit of their labor.</p>

<h3>III</h3>

<p class="pindent">It was seven-thirty, the hour set for the meeting; and everybody
looked about, waiting for somebody else to begin. At last
a stranger rose, a big six-footer with a slow drawl, introducing
himself as Mr. F. T. Merriweather, attorney for Mr. and Mrs.
Black, owners of the southwest corner; by his advice, these
parties wished to request a slight change in the wording of the
lease.</p>

<p class="pindent">“<span class="it">Changes in the lease?</span>” It was the hatchet-faced Mr. Hank
who leaped up. “I thought it was agreed we’d make no more
changes?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“This is a very small matter, sir—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But Mr. Ross is to be here in fifteen minutes, ready to
sign up!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“This is a detail, which can be changed in five minutes.”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was an ominous silence. “Well, what is your change?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Merely this,” said Mr. Merriweather; “it should be explicitly
stated that in figuring the area for the apportioning of the
royalty, due regard shall be paid to the provision of the law
that oil rights run to the centre of the street, and to the centre
of the alley in the rear.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“<span class="it">What’s that?</span>” Eyes and mouths went open, and there was
a general murmur of amazement and dissent. “Where do you
get that?” cried Mr. Hank.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I get it from the statutes of the State of California.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, you don’t get it from this lease, and you don’t get
it from me!” There was a chorus of support: “I should think
not! Whoever heard of such a thing? Ridiculous!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I think I speak for the majority here,” said old Mr.
Bromley. “We had no such understanding; we assumed that
the area of the lots to be taken was that given on the maps
of the company.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Certainly, certainly!” cried Mrs. Groarty.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I think, Mrs. Groarty,” replied Mr. Dibble, the lawyer,
“there has been an unfortunate accident, owing to your unfamiliarity
with the oil-laws of the State. The provisions of
the statute are clear.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, yes, of course!” snapped Mrs. Groarty. “We don’t
need to be told what you would say, seeing as you represent a
corner lot, and the corner lots will get twice as much money!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Not so bad as that, Mrs. Groarty. Don’t forget that your
own lot will run to the centre of Las Robles Boulevard, which
is eighty feet wide.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, but your lot will run to the centre of the side street
also—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, Mrs. Groarty, but El Centro Avenue is only sixty
feet wide.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What it means is just this, you make your lots ninety-five
feet lots, instead of sixty-five feet lots, as we all thought when
we give up and consented to let the big lots have a bigger
share.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“And you were going to let us sign that!” shouted Mr.
Hank. “You were sitting still and working that swindle on us!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Gentlemen! Gentlemen!” boomed the voice of Mr.
Golighty, the conciliator.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Let me git this straight,” broke in Abe Lohlker, the tailor.
“Eldorado Road ain’t so wide as Los Robles Boulevard, so
us fellers on the east half don’t git so much money as the
others.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“That amounts to practically nothing,” said Mr. Merriweather.
“You can figure—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Sure I can figger! But then, if it don’t amount to nothin’,
what you comin’ here bustin’ up our lease about it for?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I can tell you this right now!” cried Mr. Hank. “You’ll
never get me to sign no such agreement.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Nor me,” said Miss Snypp, the trained nurse, a decided
young lady with spectacles. “I think us little lots have put
up with our share of imposition.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What I say,” added Mr. Hank, “let’s go back to the original
agreement, the only sensible one, share and share alike, all
lots equal, same as we vote.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Let me point out something, Mr. Hank,” said Mr. Dibble,
with much dignity. “Am I correct in the impression that you
own one of the little lots adjoining the alley?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, I do.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, then, have you figured that the law entitles you to
an extra fifteen feet all along that alley? That puts you somewhat
ahead of the medium lots.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Mr. Hank’s lantern jaw dropped down. “Oh!” he said.</p>

<p class="pindent">And Mrs. Groarty burst into laughter. “Oh! Oh! That
changes it, of course! It’s us medium lots that are the suckers
now—us that make up half the lease!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“And us little lots that ain’t on the alley!” cried Mrs. Keith,
the wife of a baseball player. “What about my husband and I?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It looks to me we’re clean busted up,” said Mr. Sahm,
the plasterer. “We don’t know who we belong with no more.”
Like most of the men in the room, he had got out a pencil and
paper, and was trying to figure this new arrangement; and the
more he figured, the more complications he discovered.</p>

<h3>IV</h3>

<p class="pindent">It had been the Walter Browns who had started the idea of
a “community agreement” for this block. Two or three lots
were enough for a well, but for such a lease you could only get
some small concern, and like as not you would fall into the
hands of a speculator, and be bartered about, perhaps exploited
by a “syndicate” and sold in “units,” or tied up in a broken
contract, and have to sit by and watch while other people
drained the oil from under your land. No, the thing to do
was to get a whole block together; then you had enough for
half a dozen wells, and could deal with one of the big companies,
and you would get quick drilling, and more important
yet, you would be sure of your royalties when they were
earned.</p>

<p class="pindent">So, after much labor, and pulling and hauling, and threatening
and cajoling, and bargaining and intriguing, the owners of
the twenty-four lots had met at the Groarty home, and had
signed their names, both husbands and wives, to a “community
agreement,” to the effect that none of them would lease apart
from the others. This document had been duly recorded in
the county archives; and now day by day they were realizing
what they had done to themselves. They had agreed to agree;
and from that time on, they had never been able to agree to
anything!</p>

<p class="pindent">They met at seven-thirty every evening, and wrangled until
midnight or later; they went home exhausted, and could not
sleep; they neglected their business and their house-keeping and
the watering of their lawns—what was the use of working like
a slave when you were going to be rich? They held minority
meetings, and formed factional groups, and made pledges which
they broke, more or less secretly, before the sun had set. Their
frail human nature was subjected to a strain greater than it
was made for; the fires of greed had been lighted in their
hearts, and fanned to a white heat that melted every principle
and every law.</p>

<p class="pindent">The “lease-hounds” were on their trail, besieging their
homes, ringing the telephone, following them in automobiles.
But each new proposition, instead of satisfaction, brought
worry, suspicion and hate. Whoever proposed it, must be trying
to cheat the rest; whoever defended it, must have entered into
league with him. No one of them but knew the possibilities
of treasons and stratagems; even the mildest of them—poor,
inoffensive Mr. Dumpery, the carpenter, who, dragging his
steps home from the trolley, with fingers sore and back aching
from the driving of several thousand shingle-nails on a roof,
was met by a man driving a palatial limousine. “Step in, Mr.
Dumpery,” said the man. “This is a fine car, don’t you think?
How would you like to have me get out and leave you in it?
I’ll be very glad to do that if you’ll persuade your group to
sign up with the Couch Syndicate.” “Oh, no,” said Mr.
Dumpery, “I couldn’t do that, I promised Miss Snypp I’d
stick by the Owens plan.” “Well, you can forget that,” said
the other. “I’ve just had a talk with Miss Snypp, and she is
willing to take an automobile.”</p>

<p class="pindent">They had got into a condition of perpetual hysteria, when
suddenly hope broke upon them, like the sun out of storm-clouds;
Mr. and Mrs. Sivon brought a proposition from a man
named Skutt, who represented J. Arnold Ross, and made them
the best offer they had yet had—one thousand dollars cash
bonus for each lot, one-fourth royalty, and an agreement to
“spud in” the first well within thirty days, under penalty of
another thousand dollars per lot, this forfeit to be posted in
the bank.</p>

<p class="pindent">All of them knew about J. Arnold Ross; the local papers
had had articles telling how another “big operator” was entering
the new field. The papers printed his picture, and a sketch
of his life—a typical American, risen from the ranks, glorifying
once more this great land of opportunity. Mr. Sahm, the
plasterer, and Mr. Dumpery, the carpenter, and Mr. Hank, the
miner, and Mr. Groarty, the night watchman, and Mr. Raithel,
the candy-store keeper, and Messrs. Lohlker and Lohlker, ladies’
and gents’ tailors, felt a glow of the heart as they read these
stories. Their chance had come now, it was the land of
opportunity for them!</p>

<p class="pindent">There was another agonizing wrangle, as a result of which
the big and medium lots decided to drop their differences; they
voted against the little lots, and drew up a lease on the basis
of each lot receiving a share of royalty proportioned to its area.
They notified Mr. Skutt that they were ready, and Mr. Skutt
arranged for the great Mr. Ross to meet them at a quarter to
eight the following evening and sign the papers. And now,
here they were, exactly on the minute appointed—and they
were in another mess! Here were four of the “little lots,” set
unexpectedly above the “medium lots”; as a result of which,
four “big lots” and four “big little lots” were in favor of the
lease, and four “little little lots” and twelve “medium lots”
were against it!</p>

<p class="pindent">Here was Miss Snypp, her face brick-red with wrath, shaking
her finger at Mr. Hank. “Let me tell you, you’ll never get
me to put my signature on that paper—never in this world!”
And here was Mr. Hank, shouting back: “Let me tell you, the
law will <span class="it">make</span> you sign it, if the majority votes for it!” And
here was Mrs. Groarty, forgetting all about the Practical Handbook
of Gentility, glaring at Mr. Hank and clenching her hands
as if she had him by the throat: “And you the feller that was
yellin’ for the rights of the little lots! You was for sharin’
and sharin’ alike—you snake in the grass!” Such was the state
to which they had come, when suddenly every voice was stilled,
clenched hands were loosened, and angry looks died away. A
knock upon the door, a sharp, commanding knock; and to
every person in the room came the identical thought: J. Arnold
Ross!</p>

<h3>V</h3>

<p class="pindent">Not many of these men would ever read a book on etiquette;
they would learn about life from action—and here was an
occasion, the most instructive that had so far come to them.
They learned that when a great man comes into a room, he
comes first, preceding his subordinates. They learned that he
wears a majestic big overcoat, and stands in silence until he
is introduced by a subordinate. “Ladies and gentlemen,” said
the lease-agent, Skutt, “this is Mr. J. Arnold Ross.” Whereupon
Mr. Ross smiled agreeably, taking in the entire company:
“Good evenin’, ladies and gentlemen.” Half a dozen men arose,
offering him a chair; he took a large one, quite simply, and
without wasting time in discussion—realizing, no doubt, how
he would be embarrassing the hostess if he called attention to
a shortage of chairs.</p>

<p class="pindent">Behind him stood another man, also big. “Mr. Alston D.
Prentice,” said Skutt, and they were doubly impressed, this
being a famous lawyer from Angel City. Also there had
entered a little boy, apparently a son of Mr. Ross. The women
in the room many of them had little boys of their own, each
one destined to grow up into a great oil man; therefore they
watched the Ross boy, and learned that such a boy stays close
by his father, and says nothing, but takes in everything with
eager roving eyes. As soon as possible he gets himself a perch
in the window-sill, where he sits listening, as attentively as if
he were a man.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mrs. Groarty had got all the chairs her neighbors could
spare, and had visited the “morticians” and rented a dozen
camp-chairs; but still there was a shortage, and the etiquette
book did not tell you what to do. But these rough and ready
Western men had solved the problem, having sought out the
wood-shed, which was behind the garage, and fetched some
empty “lug-boxes,” such as you got when you bought
peaches and apricots and plums for canning. Set up on end,
these made satisfactory seats, and the company was soon
settled.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, folks,” said Mr. Skutt, genially. “Everything ready?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No,” said the acid voice of Mr. Hank. “We ain’t ready.
We can’t agree.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What?” cried the “lease-hound.” “Why, you told me you
had got together!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I know. But we’re busted open again.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What is the matter?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Half a dozen people started to tell what was the matter;
The voice of Mr. Sahm prevailed over the rest. “There’s some
people come here with too good lawyers, and they’ve raked up
what they claim is laws that the rest of us won’t stand for.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well now,” said Mr. Skutt, politely, “Mr. Prentice here
is a very good lawyer, and perhaps he can help clear up the
matter.”</p>

<p class="pindent">So, more or less in chorus, they explained, and made known
their protests at the same time. Then Mr. Ross’ lawyer, speaking
ex cathedra, advised them that the statement of the law
was absolutely correct, the lease as it stood would be interpreted
to mean the area to the middle of the streets and alleys; but
of course there was nothing to prevent their making a different
arrangement if they saw fit, and so specifying in the lease.</p>

<p class="pindent">And then the fat was in the fire; they began to argue their
rights and wrongs, and their animosities flamed so hotly that
they forgot even the presence of J. Arnold Ross, and of his
eminent lawyer. “I said it once, and I’ll say it again,” declared
Miss Snypp—“Never! Never!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You’ll sign if we vote it!” cried Mr. Hank.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You try it and see!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You mean you think you can break the agreement?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I mean I’ve got a lawyer that says he can break it any
day I tell him.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, I’ll say this,” put in Mr. Dibble; “speaking as a
lawyer—and I think my colleagues, Mr. Prentice and Mr.
Merriweather will back me—that agreement is iron-clad.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, at least we can tie you up in the courts!” cried Mr.
Sahm. “And keep you there for a year or two!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“A fat lot o’ good that’ll do you!” sneered Mr. Hank.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, we’d as soon be robbed by one set of thieves as
another,” declared Miss Snypp.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Now, now, folks!” put in Ben Skutt, hastily. “Surely
we’re none of us goin’ to cut off our noses to spite our faces.
Don’t you think you better let Mr. Ross tell you about his
plans?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Sure, let’s hear Mr. Ross!” cried Mr. Golighty; and there
was a chorus—yes, by all means they would hear Mr. Ross. If
anyone could save them, it was he!</p>

<h3>VI</h3>

<p class="pindent">Mr. Ross arose, slowly and gravely. He had already taken
off his big overcoat, and folded it and laid it neatly on the rug
beside his chair; the housewives had made note of that, and
would use it in future domestic arguments. He faced them
now, a portly person in a comfortable serge suit, his features
serious but kindly, and speaking to them in a benevolent, almost
fatherly voice. If you are troubled by the fact that he differs
from you in the use of language, bear in mind that it is not
the English but the southwestern American language that he
is using. You would need to play the oil-game out in that
country, in order to realize that a man may say, “I jist done
it onst, and I’m a-goin’ to do it again,” and yet be dressed like
a metropolitan banker, and have the calm assurance of a major-general
commanding, and the kindly dignity of an Episcopal
bishop. Said Mr. J. Arnold Ross:</p>

<p class="pindent">“Ladies and gentlemen, I traveled over jist about half
our state to get here this evenin’. I couldn’t get away sooner,
because my new well was a-comin’ in at Lobos River, and I
had to see about it. That well is now flowin’ four thousand
barrel, and payin’ me an income of five thousand dollars a day.
I got two others drillin’, and I got sixteen producin’ at Antelope.
So, ladies and gentlemen, if I say I’m an oil man, you got to
agree.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You got a great chanct here, ladies and gentlemen; but
bear in mind, you can lose it all if you ain’t careful. Out of
all the fellers that beg you for a chanct to drill your land,
maybe one in twenty will be oil men; the rest will be speculators,
fellers tryin’ to get between you and the oil men, to get some of
the money that ought by rights come to you. Even if you
find one that has money, and means to drill, he’ll maybe know
nothin’ about drillin’, and have to hire out the job on contract—and
then you’re dependin’ on a contractor that’s tryin’ to rush
the job through, so as to get to another contract jist as quick
as he can.</p>

<p class="pindent">“But, ladies and gentlemen, I do my own drillin’, and the
fellers that work for me are fellers I know. I make it my
business to be there and see to their work. I don’t lose my tools
in the hole, and spend months a-fishin’; I don’t botch the
cementin’ off, and let water into the hole, and ruin the whole
lease. And let me tell you, I’m fixed right now like no other man
or company in this field. Because my Lobos River well has jist
come in, I got a string of tools all ready to put to work. I can
load a rig onto trucks, and have them here in a week. I’ve got
business connections, so I can get the lumber for the derrick—such
things go by friendship, in a rush like this. That’s why
I can guarantee to start drillin’, and put up the cash to back
my word. I assure you whatever the others promise to do,
when it comes to the showdown, they won’t be there.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Ladies and gentlemen, it’s not up to me to say how you’re
a-goin’ to divide the royalty. But let me say this; whatever you
give up, so as to get together, it’ll be small compared to what you
may lose by delay, and by fallin’ into the hands of gamblers
and crooks. Ladies and gentlemen, take it from me as an oil
man, there ain’t a-goin’ to be many gushers here at Prospect
Hill; the pressure under the ground will soon let up, and it’ll
be them that get their wells down first that’ll get the oil. A field
plays out very quick; in two or three years you’ll see all these
here wells on the pump—yes, even this discovery well that’s
got you all crazy. So, take my word for it, and don’t break
up this lease; take a smaller share of royalty, if you must, and
I’ll see that it’s a small share of a big royalty, so you won’t
lose in real money. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what I had
to say.”</p>

<p class="pindent">The great man stood, as if waiting to see if anyone had
anything to answer; then he sat down, and there was a pause
in the proceedings. His had been weighty words, and no one
quite had the courage to break the spell.</p>

<p class="pindent">At last Mr. Golighty arose. “Friends,” he said, “we have
been hearing common sense, from a gentleman in whom we
all have confidence; and I for one admit myself convinced, and
hope that we may prove ourselves a group of business people,
capable of making a wise decision, in this matter which means
so much to all of us.” And so Mr. Golighty was started on
one of his long speeches, the purport of which appeared to be
that the majority should rule.</p>

<p class="pindent">“But that’s just the trouble,” said Mr. Sahm; “what is the
majority?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“We take a wote,” said Mr. Chaim Lohlker, “and we
find out.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Mr. Merriweather, the lawyer, had been consulting in
whispers with his clients. “Ladies and gentlemen,” he now
declared, “I am authorized by Mr. and Mrs. Walter Black to
say that they have been greatly impressed by what Mr. Ross
has said, and they wish to make any concession necessary to
harmony. They are willing to waive the point which I raised
at the beginning of this discussion, and to sign the lease as
it stands.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But what does that mean?” demanded Mrs. Groarty. “Are
they to get a royalty on a ninety-five foot lot?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Our offer is to sign the document as it stands, and the
question of interpretation may be decided later.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oho!” said Mr. Groarty. “A fine concession that—and
when we’ve just heard Mr. Prentice tell us that the law reads
your way!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“We agreed to sign it,” said Mr. Hank, doing his best to
make his voice sound pleasant.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, listen to who’s talking!” cried Miss Snypp. “The
gentleman that was saying, less than a half an hour ago, that
we should go back to our original arrangement—‘the only
sensible one, share and share alike, all lots equal, same as we
vote.’ Have I quoted you correct, Mr. Hank?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I agreed to sign this lease,” declared the ex-goldminer,
stubbornly.</p>

<p class="pindent">“And for my part,” said the trained nurse, “I said it once
and I’ll say it again, never on this earth!”</p>

<h3>VII</h3>

<p class="pindent">Old Mrs. Ross, Bunny’s grandmother, was accustomed to
protest strenuously against a boy being taken about on these
business trips. It was enough to destroy all the sweetness of
his nature, she declared; it would make him a hardened cynic
in his childhood, all this sordidness and hatefulness of money-grabbing.
But Bunny’s father answered that that was life,
and there was no good fooling yourself; Bunny would have
to live in the world some day, and the quicker he learned about
it the better. So there the boy sat, on his perch in the window-sill,
watching, and recalling his grandmother’s words.</p>

<p class="pindent">Yes, they were a mean bunch, sure enough; Dad was right
when he said you had to watch out every minute, because
somebody would be trying to take something away from you.
These people had simply gone crazy, with the sudden hope of
getting a lot of money in a hurry. Bunny, who had always
had all the money he could use, looked down with magnificent
scorn upon their petty bickering. You couldn’t trust such
people around the corner, he decided; there was nothing they
wouldn’t do to you. That fat old woman in the yellow satin
dress, with her fat red arms and her fat legs cased in silk—it
wouldn’t take much more to have her clawing somebody’s
face. And that hatchet-faced man with the voice like a buzz-saw—he
would be capable of sticking a knife into you on a
dark night!</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad wanted his son to understand every detail of these
business arrangements: the terms of the lease, the provisions
of the law, the size of the different lots, the amounts of money
involved. He would talk about it afterwards, and it would be a
kind of examination, to see how much the boy had really understood.
So Bunny listened attentively, and put this and that
together, remembering the points of the lease as he had heard
his father going over them with Ben Skutt and Mr. Prentice
while they were driving out to the field in the latter’s car. But
the boy could not keep his mind from going off to the different
personalities involved, and their points of view, and the hints
one got of their lives. That old fellow with the stooped
shoulders and the gnarled hands—he was some kind of poor
workingman, and you could see he was unhappy over this
arguing; he wanted somebody he could trust, and he looked
this way and that, but there was no such person in the crowd.
That young woman with the nose-glasses, she was a hard one—what
did she do when she wasn’t quarreling? That elderly
couple that looked rich—they were very much on their dignity,
but they had come to get their share, all the same, and they
weren’t having any generous emotions towards the “little lots”!</p>

<p class="pindent">The old gentleman drew his chair over beside Dad and began
a whispered conversation. Bunny saw Dad shake his head,
and the old gentleman drew away. Dad spoke to Skutt, and
the latter rose and said: “Mr. Ross wishes me to make clear
that he isn’t interested in any proposition for leasing a portion
of the block. He wouldn’t put down a well without room for
offset wells. If you people can’t agree, he’ll take another lease
that I’ve found him.”</p>

<p class="pindent">This struck a chill to them, and stopped the wrangling. Dad
saw it, and nodded to his “lease-hound,” who went on: “Mr.
Ross has an offer of a lease on the north side, which has very
good prospects, because we believe the anticline runs that way.
There are several acres which belong to one party, so it will
be easy to agree.”—Yes, that scared the wits out of them; it
was several minutes before they were quarreling again!</p>

<p class="pindent">Where Bunny sat in the window-sill, he could see the lights
of the “discovery well,” now shut off and awaiting the building
of tanks; he could hear through the open window the hammering
of the riveters on the tanks, and of carpenters building new
derricks along the slope. His attention was wandering, when
suddenly he was startled by a whispered voice, coming from the
darkness, apparently right alongside him: “Hey, kid!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny peered around the edge of the window, and saw a
figure, flattened against the side of the house. “Hey, kid,” said
the whisper again. “Listen to me, but don’t let nobody know
you’re listenin’. They mustn’t know I’m here.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny’s thought was, “A spy! Trying to find out about
the lease!” So he was on the alert; he listened to a steady,
persistent whisper, intense and moving:</p>

<p class="pindent">“Hey, kid! I’m Paul Watkins, and the lady what lives
here is my aunt. I dassn’t let her know I’m here, see, cause
she’ll make me go back home. I live on a ranch up in the San
Elido, and I run away from home ’cause I can’t stand it, see.
I got to get a job, but first I got to have somethin’ to eat, ’cause
I’m near starved. And my aunt would want me to have it,
’cause we’re friends, see—only she’d want me to go back home,
and I can’t stand it. So I want to get somethin’ to eat out of
the kitchen, and when I earn some money, I’ll mail it to her,
so I’ll just be borrowin’, see. What I want you to do is to
unlock the kitchen door. I won’t take nothin’ but a piece of
pie, and maybe a sandwich or somethin’, see. All you got to
do is, tell my aunt to let you go into the kitchen and get a drink
of water, and then turn the key in the door and go back into
the house. You come out the front door if you want to, and
come round and make sure it’s all like I tell you. Say kid, be a
good scout, ’cause I’m up against it, it’s sure tough not to have
a meal all day, and I been hitch-hikin’ and walkin’ a lot o’ the
time, and I’m done up. You come out and I’ll tell you about it,
but don’t try to talk to me here, ’cause they’ll see your lips
movin’, see, and they’ll know there’s somebody out here.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny thought quickly. It was a delicate ethical question—whether
you had a right to unlock somebody else’s back door,
so that a possible thief could get in! But of course it wasn’t
really a thief, if it was your aunt, and she would give it to you
anyhow. But how could you know if the story was true? Well,
you could go out, like the fellow said, and if he was a thief
you could grab him. What decided Bunny was the voice, which
he liked; even before he laid eyes on Paul Watkins’ face,
Bunny felt the power in Paul Watkins’ character, he was
attracted by something deep and stirring and powerful.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny slid off the window-sill, and walked over to Mrs.
Groarty, who was wiping the perspiration from her forehead
after a vicious tirade. “Please, ma’am,” he said, “would you
be so good as to excuse me if I go into the kitchen and get
a drink of water?”</p>

<p class="pindent">He thought that would cover the case, but he failed to
allow for the fact that Mrs. Groarty was preparing for a
career of elegance, and losing no chance of observing the ways
of the wealthy, even to the drinking of a glass of water. Her
heart warmed to the son of J. Arnold Ross, and all the vinegar
went out of her voice. “Certainly, dear,” she said, and rose
and led the way to the kitchen.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny looked about. “My, what a pretty room!” he exclaimed—which
was true enough, because it was all enameled
white paint.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, it is nice, I’m glad you think so,” said the mistress
of it, as she took a glass from a shelf and set the faucet to
running.</p>

<p class="pindent">“A real big kitchen,” said Bunny; “that’s always a comfort.”
He took the glass of water with thanks, and drank part of it.
So polite and natural! thought Mrs. Groarty. Not a bit stuck-up!</p>

<p class="pindent">And Bunny went to the back door. “I suppose you’ve
got a big screen-porch here. Kind of hot indoors, don’t you
think?” He unlocked the door, and opened it, and looked out.
“The breeze feels good,” he said. “And you can see all the
wells from here. Won’t it be fun when they get to drilling
right on this block!”</p>

<p class="pindent">What a friendly little fellow! Mrs. Groarty was thinking;
and she said yes, and it would be soon, she hoped. Bunny said
that perhaps she’d catch cold, with that lovely evening dress
she had on; so he shut the door again; and his hostess was so
charmed by the agreeable manners of the aristocracy that she
failed to notice that he did not lock the door. He put the
empty glass on the drain-board of the sink, and said no thanks,
he didn’t wish any more, and followed Mrs. Groarty back to
the crowded living-room.</p>

<p class="pindent">“What I say is this—” it was the voice of Mr. Sahm, the
plasterer. “If you really want to sign the lease as it was, sign
it as we all understood it; let’s figure the land we own, and
not the street we don’t own.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“In other words,” said Mrs. Walter Black, sarcastically,
“let’s change the lease.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“In other words,” said Miss Snypp, even more sarcastically,
“let’s not fall into the trap you big lots set for us.”</p>

<h3>VIII</h3>

<p class="pindent">It was to be expected that a thirteen-year old boy would
grow weary of such a wrangle; so no one paid the least
attention when J. Arnold Ross, junior, made his way to the
front door and went out. He reached the back door just
as Paul Watkins was closing it softly behind him. “Thanks,
kid,” whispered the latter, and stole away to the wood-shed,
with Bunny close behind him. Paul’s first sentence was: “I
got a piece of ham and two slices of bread, and one piece of
pie.” He already had his mouth full.</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s all right, I guess,” said Bunny, judiciously. He
waited, and for a while there was no sound, save that of a
hungry creature chewing. The stranger was only a shadow
with a voice; but outside, in the starlight, Bunny had noted
that the shadow was a head taller than himself, and thin.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Gee, it’s tough to be starvin’!” said the voice, at last. “Do
you want any of this?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh no, I had my supper,” said Bunny. “And I’m not
supposed to eat at night.”</p>

<p class="pindent">The other went on chewing, and Bunny found it mysterious
and romantic; it might have been a hungry wolf there in the
darkness! They sat on boxes, and when the sounds of eating
ceased, Bunny said: “What made you run away from home?”</p>

<p class="pindent">The other answered with another question, a puzzling one:
“What church do you belong to?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“How do you mean?” countered Bunny.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Don’t you know what it means to belong to a church?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, my grandmother takes me to a Baptist church sometimes,
and my mother takes me to a ’Piscopal one when I’m
visiting her. But I don’t know as I belong to any.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“My Gosh!” said Paul. It was evident he was deeply
impressed by this statement. “You mean your father don’t
make you belong to no church?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I don’t think Dad believes in things like that very much.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“My Gosh! And you ain’t scared?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Scared of what?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Why, hell-fire and brimstone. Of losin’ your soul.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No, I never thought about it.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Say, kid, you dunno how queer that hits me. I just been
makin’ up my mind to go to hell, and not give a damn. Do
you cuss?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Not very often.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, I cussed God.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“How do you do that?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Why, I said, ‘Damn God!’ I said it half a dozen times,
see, and I thought sure the lightnin’ would come down and
strike me. I said: I don’t believe, and I ain’t a-goin’ to believe,
and I don’t give a damn.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, but if you don’t believe, why should you be scared?”
Bunny’s mind was always logical like that.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, I guess I didn’t know whether I believed or not. I
don’t know now. It didn’t seem like I could set my poor frail
mind up against the Rock of Ages. I didn’t know there was
anybody had ever been that wicked before. Pap says I’m the
wickedest boy was ever born.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Pap is your father?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What does he believe?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“The Old Time Religion. It’s called the Four Square Gospel.
It’s the Apostolic Church, and they jump.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“<span class="it">Jump!</span>”</p>

<p class="pindent">“The Holy Spirit comes down to you, see, and makes you
jump. Sometimes it makes you roll, and sometimes you talk
in tongues.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What is that?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Why, you make noises, fast, like you was talkin’ in some
foreign language; and maybe it is—Pap says it’s the language
of the archangels, but I don’t know. I can’t understand it, and
I hate it.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“And your father does that?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Any time, day or night, he’s liable to. It’s his way of
foilin’ the tempter. If you say anything at meal-times, like
there ain’t enough to eat in the house, or you mention how the
interest on the mortgage will be due, and he hadn’t ought to
give all the money for the missions, then Pap will roll up his
eyes, and begin to pray out loud and let go, as he calls it; and
then the Holy Spirit seizes him and he begins to jump and
shake all over, and he slides down out of his chair and rolls
on the floor, and begins to talk in tongues, like it says in the
Bible. And then Mom starts to cry, ’cause it scares her, she
knows she’s got things to do for the kids, but she dassn’t
resist the Spirit, and Pap shouts, Let go, let go—real loud, in
the Voice of Sinai, as he says, and then Mom’s shoulders begin
to jerk, and her mouth pops down, and she begins to roll in the
chair, and shout for the Pentecostal Baptism. And that turns
the kids loose, they all begin to jump and to babble; and gee,
it scares you, somethin’ starts to grab you, and make you jerk
whether you want to or not. I rushed out of the house, and
I shook my fist tip at the sky and I yelled: ‘Damn God!
Damn God!’ And then I waited for the sky to fall in, and it
didn’t, and I said, I don’t believe it, and I ain’t a-goin’ to make
myself believe it, not if I get sent to hell for it.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Is that the reason you ran away?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s one of the reasons. You can’t get nowhere, livin’
like we do. We got a big ranch, but it’s mostly rocks, and
we’d have a hard time anyhow; you plant things, and the rain
fails, and nothin’ but weeds come up. Why, if there’s a God,
and he loves his poor human creatures, why did he have to
make so many weeds? That was when I first started to
cussin’—I was hoin’ weeds all day, and I just couldn’t help
it, I found myself sayin’, over and over: ‘Damn weeds! Damn
weeds! Damn weeds!’ Pap says it wasn’t God that made ’em,
it was the devil; but then, God made the devil, and God knew
what the devil was goin’ to do, so ain’t God to blame?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It seems like it to me,” said Bunny.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Gee, kid, but you’re lucky! You never knew you had a
soul at all! You sure missed a lot of trouble!” There was
a pause, and then Paul added: “I had a hard time runnin’
away, and I ’spose I’ll go back in the end—it’s tough to think
of your brothers and sisters starvin’ to death, and I don’t see
what else can happen to ’em.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“How many are there?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“There’s four, besides me; and they’re all younger’n me.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“How old are you?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’m sixteen. The next is Eli, he’s fifteen; and the Holy
Spirit has blessed him—he has the shivers, and they last all
day sometimes. He sees the angels, comin’ down in clouds of
glory; and he healed old Mrs. Bugner, that had complications,
by the layin’ on of his hands. Pap says the Lord plans great
blessings through him. Then there’s Ruth, she’s thirteen, and
she had visions too, but she’s beginnin’ to think like I do; we
have sensible talks—you know how it is, you can sometimes
talk to people that’s your own age, things you can’t ever say
to grown-ups.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, I know,” said Bunny. “They think you don’t understand
anything. They’ll talk right in front of you, and what do
they think is the matter with your brains? It makes me tired.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Ruth is what makes it hard for me to stay away,” continued
the other. “She said for me to go, but gee, what’ll they all do?
They can’t do hard work like I can. And don’t you think I’d
run away from hard work; it’s only that I want to get somewhere,
else what’s the use of it? There ain’t any chance for
us. Pap hitches up the wagon and drives us all to Paradise,
where the Pentecostal Mission is, and there they all roll and
babble all day Sunday, most, and the Spirit commands them to
pledge all the money they’ve got to convert the heathen—you
see, we’ve got missions in England and France and Germany
and them godless nations, and Pap’ll promise more than he’s
got, and then he’s got to give it, ’cause it don’t belong to him
no more, it’s the Holy Spirit’s, see. That’s why I quit.”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was silence for a space; then Paul asked: “What’s
that big crowd of folks in there for?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s the oil lease; didn’t you know about the oil?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, we heard about the strike. We’re supposed to have
oil on our ranch—at least, my Uncle Eby used to say he’d
come onto signs of it; but he’s dead, and I never seen ’em,
and I never expected no luck for our family. But they say
Aunt Allie here is a-goin’ to be rich.”</p>

<p class="pindent">A sudden vision flashed over Bunny—of Mrs. Groarty, in
her shiny robe of yellow satin, and her large bare arms and
bosom. “Tell me,” he said, “does your aunt roll?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Gosh, no!” said the other. “She married a Romanist, and
Pap calls her the Whore of Babylon, and we’re not supposed
to speak to her no more. But she’s kind, and I knew she’d
gimme some grub, so when I found I couldn’t get a job, I
come here.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Why couldn’t you get a job?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“ ’Cause everybody lectures you and tells you to go back
home.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But why do you tell them about it?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You have to. They ask where you live, and why ain’t you
at home; and I ain’t a-goin’ to lie.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But you can’t starve!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I can before I’ll go crooked. I had a fuss with Pap, and
he says, if you depart from the Holy Word, the devil gets you,
and you lie and cheat and steal and fornicate; and I says, ‘Well,
sir, I’ll show you. I think a fellow can be decent without no
devil.’ I made up my mind, and I’m a-goin’ to show him. I’ll
pay back Aunt Allie, so I’m only borrowin’ this grub.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny held out his hand in the darkness. “You take this,”
he said.</p>

<p class="pindent">“What is it?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Some money.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No, sir, I don’t want no money, not till I earn it.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But listen, Paul, my Dad’s got a lot of money, and he
gives me what I ask him for. He’s come here to lease this
block from your aunt, and he won’t miss this little bit.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No, sir, I ain’t a-goin’ to turn into no bum; I didn’t run
away for that. You think ’cause I took some food out of my
aunt’s pantry—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No, I don’t think that at all! And you can call this a
loan, if you want to.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You put up your money,” said the other, with a note of
harshness in his voice. “I ain’t a-goin’ to call no loans, and
you done enough for me already; so forget it.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, but Paul—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Do what I say, now!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But then, you’ll come to the hotel tomorrow and have
lunch with me?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No, I can’t come to no hotel, I don’t look decent.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But that don’t matter, Paul.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Sure it matters! Your Dad’s a rich man, and he wouldn’t
want no ranch-boy at his hotel.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Dad wouldn’t care—honest, he wouldn’t! He says I don’t
know enough boys, I stay by myself and read too much.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, but he don’t want no boys like me.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“He says I’ve got to work, Paul—honest, you don’t know
Dad. He’d like to have you come; he’d like us to be friends.”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a pause, while Paul weighed this proposition, and
Bunny waited, as anxiously as if it were the sentence of a
court. He liked this boy! He had never met any boy he liked
so much as this one! And did the boy like him?</p>

<p class="pindent">As it happened, the sentence of the court was never pronounced.
Paul suddenly started to his feet, crying, “What’s
that?” Bunny also sprang up. From the direction of Mrs.
Groarty’s house had come a clamor of voices, rising above the
pounding of hammers and the sounds of labor in the neighborhood.
The yells grew louder, and yet louder, and the boys
dashed to the open window of the house.</p>

<p class="pindent">Everybody in the room was on his or her feet, and all
seemed to be shouting at once. It was impossible to see many in
the crowd, but two men close by the window made a little drama
all by themselves. They were Mr. Sahm, the plasterer, owner
of one of the “little little lots,” and Mr. Hank, the ex-goldminer,
owner of one of the “big little lots”; they were shaking
their fists at each other, and Mr. Sahm, the party of the first
part, was shouting at Mr. Hank, the party of the second part,
“You’re a dirty, lying, yellow skunk!” To which the party
of the second part answered, “Take that, you white-livered
puppy!” and hit the party of the first part, Biff! a crack on the
nose. The party of the first part countered with a nasty uppercut
to the jaw of the party of the second part, Bang! And so
they went to it, Biff, bang! Bang, biff!—and the two boys gazed
through the open window, horrified, enraptured. Whoopee!
A scrap!</p>

<h3>IX</h3>

<p class="pindent">There was a general appearance as if everybody in the
room were fighting; but that could not have been the case, for
there were several left to separate Messrs. Sahm and Hank,
and to shove them into opposite corners. Before this process
was entirely completed, Bunny heard a voice calling his name
from the front of the house. “All right, Dad!” he answered,
and ran to meet his father.</p>

<p class="pindent">The three men of the Ross party were descending the front
steps, and proceeding down the walk. “Come on,” said the
father; “we’re a-goin’ back to the hotel.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Gee, Dad! What happened?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“They’re a bunch of boobs, and you can’t do anything with
them. I wouldn’t take their lease if they offered it as a gift.
Let’s get out of here.”</p>

<p class="pindent">They were walking towards their car, which was parked a
little way down the road. Suddenly Bunny halted. “Oh, Dad,”
he cried; “wait just a minute! Please, Dad, there’s a boy I
met, and I want to tell him something. Wait for me, please!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, be quick,” said Dad. “I got another lease to see
about tonight.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny raced back, as fast as his legs could move. A panic
had seized him. “Paul! Paul!” he shouted. “Where are you?”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was no sound, and no sign of the other boy. Bunny
ran to the wood-shed, he ran all the way round the house,
shouting, “Paul! Paul!” He dashed into the screen-porch,
and opened the back door, and peered into the empty, white-enameled
kitchen; he ran back to the wood-shed, and then
to the garage in front of it; he stood gazing across the dark
cabbage fields and calling at the top of his lungs: “Paul! Paul!
Where are you? Please don’t go away!” But there was no
reply.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then Bunny heard his father’s voice again, in a tone that
was not to be neglected; so he went, with sinking heart, and
climbed into his place in the automobile. All the way back to
the hotel, while the men were discussing the new lease they
planned to make, Bunny sat in silence, with tears stealing down
his cheeks. Paul was gone! He might never see Paul again!
And oh, such a wonderful boy! Such a wise boy—he knew so
many things! A clear-sighted boy, and so interesting to talk
to! And an honest boy—he wouldn’t lie or steal! Bunny was
ashamed, recollecting several times in his life when he had told
lies—nothing very serious, but little things, that seemed so
petty and mean, in the sudden clear light of Paul’s uprightness.</p>

<p class="pindent">And Paul wouldn’t take any of Dad’s money! Dad thought
that everybody in the world would be glad to get his money;
but this boy had refused it! He must have been angry with
Bunny for pressing it upon him, else he wouldn’t have run
away like that! Or else, for whatever reason, he didn’t like
Bunny; and so Bunny would never see him again!</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER III<br /> <span class="sub-head">THE DRILLING</span></h1></div>

<h3>I</h3>

<p class="pindent">Once more the valleys and gorges of Guadalupe Grade
resounded to the flying echoes of honking horns. This time
it was not one car, but a whole fleet of them, a dozen seven-ton
trucks, broad and solid, with broad and solid double wheels,
and trailers on behind, that carried even more tons. The first
load towered high, a big stationary engine, held in place by
heavy timbers bolted fast at the sides; that truck went carefully
round the curves, you bet! Behind it came the “mud-hogs”
and the “draw-works”; and then the “string” of drilling tools,
hollow tubes of the best steel, that were screwed end to end
and went down into the earth, a mile or more, if need be. These
tubes extended over the end of the trailers, where red flags
waved in warning; on the short curves they swept the road,
and if you met a car coming in the opposite direction, you had
to stop while the other car crept carefully by; if there was not
room enough, the other car would have to back up to a place
where the road was straighter. All this required continuous
clamor of horns; you would have thought some huge flock of
prehistoric birds—did the pterodactyls make noises?—had
descended upon Guadalupe Pass, and were hopping along,
crying: “Honk! Honk! Honk!”</p>

<p class="pindent">What they were really saying was: “Dad is waiting for
us! Dad has signed his lease, and the derrick is under way,
and his ‘rig’ must be on time! Clear the road!” Dad would
not trust to railroads for a rush job like this; they switched
your stuff onto sidings, and you spent a week telephoning and
interviewing dumb officials. But when you hired motor-trucks,
you owned them for the time being, and they came right
through. There was insurance to cover all possible accidents—including
the value of any man you might chance to send rolling
down a mountain-side in a Ford car!</p>

<p class="pindent">So here came the dozen valiant tooters, toiling slowly up
the grade, at far less than the ordained speed of fifteen miles
per hour. Their radiators were hissing with steam, and every
mile or so they would have to stop and cool off. But they got
to the summit all right; and then came the slow crawl downwards,
a man going ahead with a red flag, warning other cars
into safe pockets on the road, to wait till the whole fleet had
got by. So they got out of the pass, and onto the straight road,
where they could go flying like any other cars; then it was a
mighty roaring and a jolly sight. “Honk! Honk! Get out of
the way! Dad is waiting!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Perched on top of the drilling tools were young fellows in
blue-jeans and khaki, giving abundant evidence that their last
well had not been a dry hole, but had given its due yield of
smeary treasures. However, they had got their faces clean,
and they met the sunny landscape with no less sunny smiles.
They sang songs, and exchanged jollifications with the cars they
passed, and threw kisses to the girls in the ranch-houses and
the filling-stations, the orange-juice parlors and the “good eats”
shacks. Two days the journey took them, and meantime they
had not a care in the world; they belonged to Old Man Ross,
and it was his job to worry. First of all things he saw that
they got their pay-envelopes every other Saturday night—and
that the envelopes contained one dollar per day more than anybody
else nearby was getting; moreover, you got this pay,
not only while you were drilling, but while you were sitting
on top of a load of tools, flying through a paradise of orange-groves
at thirty miles an hour, singing songs about the girl
who was waiting for you in the town to which you were bound.</p>

<h3>II</h3>

<p class="pindent">Dad had signed up with the man on the North slope, Mr.
Bankside, a gentleman who knew what he wanted, and didn’t
waste your time. It was not so close to the discovery well, therefore
Dad would have to pay only a sixth royalty, and a bonus of
five thousand dollars on the two and one-half acres.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad and Bunny called at the offices of the Sunset Lumber
Company, and had a very special private interview with the
president of this concern. Mr. Ascott was a heavy gentleman
with flushed cheeks and a manner of strenuous cordiality; he
rumpled Bunny’s hair, and swapped cigars in gold-foil, and discussed
the weather and the prospects of the new field, so that
you’d have thought he and Dad were life-long chums. Until
at last Dad got down to business, and said that he positively
had to have the lumber for a derrick delivered on the ground
within three days; whereupon Mr. Ascott threw up his hands
and declared that such an order could not be filled for God
Almighty himself. The demand for derrick material had
simply emptied all the yards, and orders were piling up a score
a day. But Dad interrupted—he knew all that, but this was
something special, he had jist got himself into a contract with
a big forfeit posted at the bank, and he didn’t believe in steel
derricks, but the lumber men would sure have to help him, unless
they wanted to lose him for good. He wanted to place an order
for half a dozen more derricks, to be delivered in the course
of the next three months; and moreover, Mr. Ascott must
understand that this well Dad proposed to drill was going to
extend the field, and lead to new developments, and a big
increase in the lumber business, so it was really a public
service Dad was performing, and they must all stand together
and help him. Moreover, Dad was forming a little syndicate
to handle a part of this first well—jist a quiet affair for a few
people that knew a good thing when they saw it, and would
appreciate getting in on the ground floor; and Mr. Ascott knew
Dad for a man of his word, and no piker.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mr. Ascott said that yes, he did; and Dad said that he had
come to that field to give most of his time to it, and he was
a-goin’ to make a big thing there, and he wanted to get a little
organization together—they would all stand by one another,
and that was the way to make things go in this world. Mr.
Ascott said that of course, co-operation was the word in modern
business, he granted that; and he wrinkled up his forehead,
and studied some papers on his desk, and did some figuring
on a pad, and asked at just what hour Dad had to have that
lumber. And Dad explained that his cement-man had the
cellar and the foundations half done, and his boss-carpenter
was a-gettin’ a crew together—in a matter like this he wouldn’t
trust no contractor. It would suffice if Mr. Ascott would have
the sills there by Thursday night.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mr. Ascott said they were having a lot of trouble because
the roads about Prospect Hill were in such bad condition; and
Dad said he knew that, and something would have to be done
about it quick, he was jist a-goin’ to see the county superintendent
of roads. So then Mr. Ascott said all right, he would do his
part; and Dad invited him to come down and look the field
over, and let Dad put him onto a few good things down there;
and they shook hands, and Bunny had his hair rumpled again—something
which in the course of business he had to pretend
that he didn’t mind.</p>

<p class="pindent">So that was that. And as they got into their car and drove
away, Dad repeated his maxim that grease is cheaper than
steel. Dad meant by that, you must let people have a share
of your profits, so they would become a part of your “organization,”
and do quickly whatever you said. And meantime they
had come to the office of the superintendent of roads, where
they had another very special private interview. This official,
Mr. Benzinger, a sharp little man with nose-glasses, was not
dressed like a man of money, and Bunny knew it by the difference
in the tone Dad took. There was no exchanging of gold-foil
cigars, and no talk about the weather; but Dad got right
down to business. He had come to Beach City to put through
a job that would employ hundreds of men, and mean millions
of dollars to the community; the question was, would the road
authorities co-operate to make this possible.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mr. Benzinger answered that of course, the authorities
wanted to do everything to that end—it was the purpose for
which they were in office; the trouble was that this “strike”
at Prospect Hill had caught them without any funds for
rush work. Dad said that might be, but there must be
some way to handle such a situation, everybody’d ought to get
together.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mr. Benzinger hesitated, and asked just what it was that
Mr. Ross wanted. So Dad explained that he was jist about to
drill on such and such a tract, and he drew a little map showing
the streets that he needed to have graded, and the holes filled
up with crushed rock, so his sills could be delivered on Thursday
night. Mr. Benzinger said that might be arranged, perhaps,
and asked his secretary, the only other person in the room, to
step out and ask Mr. Jones to come in; Dad caught the meaning
of that, and as soon as the secretary was gone, he pulled a little
roll of bills out of his pocket, remarking that Mr. Benzinger
would have to work overtime on the matter, and be put to
extra trouble and expense, and it was only fair that Dad should
make it up to him; he hoped Mr. Benzinger would understand
that they would have many dealings in future, as Dad believed
in taking care of his friends. Mr. Benzinger put the bills
quietly into his pocket, and said that he understood fully, and
the county authorities wished to give every help to men who
came in to build up the community and its industries; Dad might
count upon it that the work on those streets would start in the
morning.</p>

<p class="pindent">So then they shook hands, and Dad and Bunny went out,
and Dad told Bunny that he must never under any circumstances
mention what he had seen in that office, because every public
official had enemies who were trying to take his job away, and
would try to represent it that Dad had paid him a bribe. But
of course it wasn’t anything of the sort; it was the man’s
business to keep the roads in repair, and what Dad gave him
was jist a little tip, by way of thanks, so to speak. You
wouldn’t feel decent not to give him something, because you
were going to make a lot of money yourself, and these here
poor devils had to live on a beggar’s salary. No doubt Mr.
Benzinger had a wife and children at home, and they were in
debt; maybe the wife was sick, and they had no way to pay
the doctor. The man would have to stay late at his office, and
go out tonight and hustle up some men to do that job, and
maybe get scolded by his superiors for having acted without
authority; the superiors were doubtless in the pay of some of
the big companies, which didn’t want roads built except to
leases of their own. There was all kinds of wires like that
being pulled, said Dad, and you had to be on the watch every
minute. Never imagine that you’d be allowed to come into
a new place and take out several million dollars worth of wealth
from the ground, and not have all kinds of fellers a-tryin’ to
get it away from you!</p>

<p class="pindent">That all sounded reasonable, and Bunny listened while Dad
impressed his favorite lesson: take care of your money! Some
day an accident might happen to Dad, and then Bunny would
have the whole thing on his shoulders; so he could not begin
too early to realize that the people he met would be trying, by
devices more or less subtle, to get a hold of his money. Bunny,
not thinking of opposing his father’s arguments, but merely
getting things straight in his own mind, was moved to remark:
“But Dad, you remember that boy Paul? He certainly wasn’t
trying to get our money, for I offered him some, and he wouldn’t
take it; he went away without my seeing him again.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, I know,” said Dad; “but he told you his whole family
is crazy, and he’s jist crazy a little different, that’s all.”</p>

<h3>III</h3>

<p class="pindent">This was a moral problem which Bunny debated within
himself: was Paul Watkins crazy, because of the way he
behaved? If so, there must be a crazy streak in Bunny also,
for he had been enormously impressed by Paul, and could not
help thinking about him. He had paid a tribute to Paul’s sense
of honor, by resolving that he, Bunny, would permit himself
the luxury of not being a liar—not even in trivial things. Also,
the meeting with Paul had caused Bunny to become suddenly
aware what an easy time he was having in life. The very next
morning, when he opened his eyes, lying in the deep soft
mattress of the hotel-bed, with its heavy linen sheets so smooth
and white, and its warm blankets, soft as fleece, and striped
the color of ripe strawberries—at once his thought was: how
had Paul slept that night, without shelter and without cover?
Had he lain on the ground? But grandmother, if she saw you
even sitting on the ground in the evening, would cry out that
you would “catch your death!” And down in the spacious
dining-room of the hotel, the thought of Paul without breakfast
had quite ruined the taste of grape-fruit in crushed ice, and
cereal and thick cream, and bacon and eggs, and wheat-cakes
with maple syrup. Paul would be going hungry, because
he was too proud to eat food until he had earned it; and
some strange perversity caused Bunny, in the midst of
comfort, to yearn toward this fierce anchorite who spurned
the flesh!</p>

<p class="pindent">The morning after the meeting at Mrs. Groarty’s, Bunny
had sat under a palm-tree in front of the hotel, hoping that
Paul would come by. Instead, there had come Mrs. Groarty
and her husband, bringing Mr. Dumpery, and followed by Mr.
and Mrs. Bromley, with their temporary friends the Jewish
tailors. It was a deputation from the “medium lots,” explaining
that they had continued their meeting until one o’clock that
morning, and had decided to rescind their community agreement,
and go each man for himself; now the “medium lots” wanted
Dad to take their lease. Bunny told them that Dad was out
in the field with the geologist; they might wait for him, but
Bunny knew how emphatic Dad was about offset wells, so
there was no chance of his taking a small lease.</p>

<p class="pindent">After which Bunny took a seat on the bench next to Mrs.
Groarty, for the purpose of finding out whether Paul had
revealed himself to her. Bunny confessed to her that he had
done something very wrong the previous evening; he had failed
to lock the kitchen door after looking out on the porch. Following
his program of telling the exact truth, he stated that somebody
had gone into her kitchen and taken some food; Bunny
had promised not to tell who it was, but it was someone
who was very hungry, and Bunny had felt sorry about it.
If Mrs. Groarty would let him—and he hauled out his little
purse.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mrs. Groarty was all aglow with pleasure at the delicacy
of feeling of the aristocracy; she had quite fallen in love with
this strange little fellow, who was so pretty to look at, with
sensitive red lips like a girl’s, and at the same time had the
manners of an elderly marquis, or something like that, as Mrs.
Groarty had come to know such persons in moving pictures.
She refused his money, at the same time thinking what a shame
her own fortune had not been made earlier in life, so that her
children could have worn such lovely clothes, and learned to
express themselves with old-fashioned elegance!</p>

<p class="pindent">Two or three days later, while Bunny was poking about the
“field,” watching the interesting sights, he happened to pass
the Groarty home, and saw the future oil-queen feeding her
rabbits. “Oh, little boy!” she called; and when Bunny had
come near, she said: “I had a letter from Paul.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Where is he?” cried Bunny, in excitement.</p>

<p class="pindent">“The letter was mailed in San Paulo. But he says not to
look for him, because he’s hitch-hiking, and he’ll be gone.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“And how is he?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“He says he’s all right and not to worry. The poor child,
he sent me two-bits in stamps, to pay for that food he took!
He says he earned the money—bless him!” Tears ran down
the lady’s ample cheeks; and Bunny learned the difficult lesson
that human nature is a complicated thing, so that the same fat
lady can be at one moment a hyena of greed, and at the next
a mater dolorosa.</p>

<p class="pindent">These two sat down on a rabbit-hutch, and had a good
talk. Bunny told Mrs. Groarty just how it had happened, and
it was a relief to get it off his conscience. Mrs. Groarty in
turn told him about the Watkins family, and how they had
moved from Arkansas, traveling in the old fashion, by wagon,
when Mrs. Groarty was a girl; before that, she had been
driven, as a baby in arms, from the mountains of Tennessee.
Their place at Paradise, in the San Elido country, was a goat-ranch,
with a spring in a little rocky valley; there was only
a couple of acres you could cultivate, and for part of that you
had to pump irrigating water by hand. It was a desert country,
and she didn’t see how they could possibly get along without
Paul’s work; she would send them a little of her oil money,
but she didn’t know whether Abel—that was her brother, Paul’s
father—would take anything from her, he was so crazy with
his religion.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny asked whether he had always been a “roller”; and
the other answered no, it was a notion he had taken up, just a
few years ago. As for Mrs. Groarty, when she had married
her present husband, three years back, she had found her
home in the one true faith which had never changed through
the ages; it was a comfortable faith, and let you alone, and
you weren’t always getting crazy new notions and splitting
up into sects. They had a lovely church in Beach City, and
Father Patrick had such a kind heart and a big, splendid voice—had
Bunny ever been to a Catholic service? Bunny said
he hadn’t; and Mrs. Groarty might perhaps have found a
handsome and wealthy convert, had it not been that she
was just then being so sorely tempted by the powers of this
world.</p>

<p class="pindent">Yes—Satan had brought her there, and set her on a rabbit-hutch,
and was showing her all the kingdoms of the earth!
Right across the street, at number 5743 Los Robles Boulevard,
the Couch Syndicate had set up a big tent, plastered with red
signs, and there were automobiles driving up all day, with
people to buy “units” at ten dollars each. Mrs. Groarty’s group
of “medium lots” had not yet leased, she explained; they had
several offers—the best from Sliper and Wilkins, and had
Bunny ever heard anything about these operators? And was
Dad really quite decided that the best oil prospects lay on the
north side? Mrs. Groarty and her husband were thinking of
putting their bonus money, when they got it, into some units
of “Eureka Pete”—the Eureka Petroleum Company—which
was promising a quick drilling on the north slope. And Bunny
found himself suddenly recollecting Dad’s warning: “Look
out for people who mistake you for an oil well, and try to put
you on the pump!”</p>

<h3>IV</h3>

<p class="pindent">Mr. Benzinger had sent two truck-loads of Mexicans and
fixed up the roads; and Mr. Ascott had kept his promise and
delivered the lumber for the derrick; and Dad’s boss-carpenter
had got his gang, and they had cut mortise-joints in the sills,
and drilled holes through them, and set them with bolts; then
stage by stage the towering derrick had come into being, 122
feet high, straight and true and solid. There was a ladder,
and a platform half-way up, and another place to stand at the
top; it was all nice and clean and new, and Dad would let you
climb, and you could see the view, clear over the houses and
the trees, to the blue waters of the Pacific—gee, it was great!
And then came the fleet of motor-trucks, thundering in just at
sunset, dusty and travel-stained, but full of “pep”—judging
by the racket they made, tooting a greeting to J. Arnold Ross
and his son. The ditch by the roadside had been filled with
crushed rock, making a place where they could drive in to the
field; and there they stood, twelve of them lined up in a row.</p>

<p class="pindent">There were bright electric lights on the derrick, and men
waiting, the sleeves of their khaki shirts rolled up. They went
to it with a will; for they were working under the eye of the
“old man,” the master of the pay-roll and of their destinies.
They respected this “old man,” because he knew his business,
and nobody could fool him. Also they liked him, because he
combined a proper amount of kindliness with his sternness;
he was simple and unpretentious—when the work was crowded,
you would have him eating his beans and coffee on a stool
in the “eats” joint alongside you. He was a “real guy”; and
with this he combined the glamour of a million dollars. Yes,
he had “the stuff,” barrels of it—and what is a magician who
pulls rabbits and yards of ribbon out of his sleeves, compared
with one who can pull out a couple of dozen oil-derricks, and
as many miles of steel casing, and tanks, and fleets of motor-trucks,
and roads for them to run on?</p>

<p class="pindent">Also they liked the “kid,” because he put on no more airs
than his Dad, but was jolly, and interested in what you were
doing, and asked sensible questions and remembered your
explanations. Yes, a kid like that would learn the business and
carry it on; the old man was teaching him right. He knew all
the crew by their first names, and took their joshing, and had a
suit of old clothing, duly smeared with grease, which he would
put on, and tackle any job where a half-sized pair of hands
could get a hold.</p>

<p class="pindent">But there was no joshing now; this was a time for breaking
records. There was a big cement block for the engine, and
a wooden block on top of that, to take up the vibration; and
now the truck with the engine on was backed into place, and
blocked firm, and the skids made solid, and in a jiffy the engine
was slid into place and ready for business. At the same time
another crew had got the big steam boiler ready. There was a
tank of fuel oil at hand, and the feed-pipe was hitched up, and
she was ready to make steam. And meantime the next truck was
backed into place, and the skids put under the “draw-works”;
when Bunny came back the next morning he found the big
“drum” bolted into place, and the running tackle up in the
derrick, and they were unloading the “drill-stem.” They would
fit a steel chain about three of the heavy pipes at once, and a
pulley with a steel hook would come down and seize the chain;
the engine would start thumping, and the chain and the steel
cable would draw tight, and the pipe would slide off the truck.
These pipes were twenty feet long, and weighed nineteen pounds
to the foot, and when you had your well a mile deep, you
could figure it for yourself, there was fifty tons of steel, and
your derrick had to carry that weight, and your steel cables
had to lift it, and your drum and engine had to stand the strain.
People kicked at the price of gasoline, but they never thought
about the price of drill-stem and casings!</p>

<p class="pindent">All these things Bunny had heard a hundred times, but
Dad never tired of telling them. He was never entirely content
unless the boy was by his side, learning the business. You
mustn’t fool yourself with the idea that you could hire experts
to attend to things; for how could you know that a man was
an expert, unless you knew as much as he did? Some day
your foreman might drop dead, or some other fellow would
buy him away from you, and then where would you be? Be
your own expert, said Dad!</p>

<p class="pindent">The machinery which did the turning was called a “rotary
table”; it was connected with the engine by a steel chain, exactly
like the sprocket-chain of a bicycle, except that the links were
as big as your fist. The rotary table had a hole through the
centre, where the drill-stem went through; there was a
corresponding hole in the derrick-floor—and soon there would
be one in the ground! The hole in the rotary-table was square,
and the top drill-stem, known as your “Kelly joint,” was square,
and fitted this hole; you lowered it through—but first you
screwed in your “collar” and “bit,” the tool which did the
actual cutting. They were starting with a “disc-bit”—it had
two steel things like dinner-plates, set opposite each other, and
as they went round and round, the weight of the pipe caused
them to chew their way into the earth. You started with an
eighteen-inch “bit,” and as it flopped round, it cut you a hole
two feet across.</p>

<p class="pindent">Well, the time came when the last tool was on hand, and
the last bolt made tight, and the drilling tools ready for their
long journey into the bowels of the earth. This was a great
moment, akin to the launching of a ship, or the inauguration of
the first president of a republic. Your friends gathered, and
the workers from nearby jobs, and a crowd of sightseers. The
crew had been hustling for three weeks, with this as their goal,
and now they stood, both the day shift and the night shift,
proud of their past, and eager for their future. The engineman
had his hand at the lever, and his eye on Dad; Dad gave him
a nod, and he shoved the lever, and the engine started, and the
gears made a roaring racket, and the bit hit the ground—“Spud!
Spud!” At least that is what men imagine they hear, and
so they call the operation “spudding in.” “All aboard for
China!” sang the foreman; and everybody who had clean hands
shook hands with Dad—including Mr. Bankside, whose land
they were drilling, and Mrs. Bankside and the whole Bankside
family. They carried Dad and Bunny to their home, which
was on the lease, and they opened a bottle of champagne, and
drank a wee sip to the health of the Ross-Bankside Number 1,
which was already a half-dozen feet down in the ground.</p>

<h3>V</h3>

<p class="pindent">It was cool at the beach in summer, and back at Lobos
River it was hot as the original fires; so the family was going
to move. Dad wasted very little time on such a matter; he
dropped in at a real estate agent’s, and asked for the best
furnished house in town, and drove out to an imitation palace
on the ocean-front, and looked it over, and went back to the
office and signed a six month’s lease for twenty-five hundred
dollars.</p>

<p class="pindent">Outside, this house was plaster applied to chicken-wire, or
something that looked like it; inside, it was shiny like the home
of Mrs. Groarty, only it was imitation mahogany instead of
imitation oak. There was a big entrance hall, and a drawing-room
on one side, and on the other a dining-room, with
elaborate up-to-date “built-in” features. To these the owner
had added furniture regardless of expense or period: spindley-legged
gilded French things, done in flowered silk; mid-century
American black walnut, with roses and rosettes; black Chinese
teak-wood, carved with dragons. There were statues of nude
ladies, in highly polished marble, and also a marble clergyman
in a frock coat and a string tie. Upstairs were six bed-rooms,
each done in a different color by a lady from the best department-store
in town. Some people might have found the place
lacking in the elements of home, but Bunny never thought of
such a thing—he had learned to be happy in a hotel room,
with the use of the lobby. All his life that he could remember,
home had been a place which you rented, or bought with the
idea of holding it as a real estate speculation. As the Indians
in the Hudson Bay country kill a moose in the winter-time,
and move to the moose, so Dad started an oil well, and moved
to the well.</p>

<p class="pindent">First came Mr. Eaton, the tutor; he was used to getting
a telephone call, informing him where the carcase of the moose
was to be found. He would pack his two suit-cases and his
steamer-trunk, and take the train or the motor-bus to his pupil.
He was a rather delicate young man, very retiring, with pale
blue eyes, and pockets that bagged because he put books in
them. He had been engaged with the express restriction that
oil was to come before culture; in other words, he was to
teach his pupil at such times as Dad was not doing it. Dad
was not quite clear on the subject of book knowledge; at times
he would say it was all “bunk,” but at other times he would
pay it a tribute of embarrassment. Yes, he was a “roughneck,”
of course, and Bunny would have to know more than he; but
at the same time he was jealous of that knowledge, troubled
by fear it might be something he would disapprove of. He
was right in this, for Mr. Eaton told Bunny quite shamelessly
that there were things in the world more important than oil.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then came the family limousine, with grandmother and
Aunt Emma, driven by Rudolph, who was a combination of
chauffeur and gardener, and would put on a frock coat and be
a butler at parties. Beside him on the front seat rode Sing,
the Chinese cook, who was too precious to be trusted to
motor-bus or train. Nellie, the house-maid, could be more
easily replaced, so she brought herself. A truck brought
the trunks and miscellaneous belongings—Bunny’s bicycle and
Aunt Emma’s hat-boxes, and grandmother’s precious works of
art.</p>

<p class="pindent">Old Mrs. Ross was seventy-five years of age, and her life
had been that of a ranch-woman, in the days before automobiles
and telephones and machinery. She had slaved in poverty, and
raised a family, and seen one daughter die in child-birth, and
a son of typhoid in the Spanish war, and another son as a
drunkard; now “Jim” was all she had left, and he had made
a fortune late in his life, and lifted her to leisure at the end
of hers. You might have been a long time guessing what use
she would make of it. Out of a clear sky she announced that
she was going to be a painter! For sixty years, it appeared,
she had cherished that dream, while washing dishes, and spanking
babies, and drying apricots and muscat grapes.</p>

<p class="pindent">So now, wherever they lived, grandmother had a spare room
for a “studio.” A wandering artist had taught her the handling
of crude and glaring colors. This artist had painted desert
sunsets, and the mountains and rocky coasts of California;
but old Mrs. Ross never painted anything she had ever seen.
What she was interested in was gentility—parks, and lawns,
and shady avenues with ladies in hoop-skirts, and gentlemen
with wide-bottomed trousers. Her masterpiece was six feet
by four, and always hung in the dining-room of the rented
home; it showed in the background an extremely elegant two-story
house, with two-storied porches having pillars on which
you could see every curlicue. In front ran a circular drive,
with a fountain in the middle, and water which was very
plainly splashing. Around the drive rolled a victoria—or
maybe it was a landau or a barouche—with a lady and a gentleman
being driven by a Negro coachman. Behind the vehicle
raced a little dog, and playing on the lawn were a boy, and a
girl in wide skirts, having a hoop in her hand. Also there were
iron deer on the lawn—you never got tired of looking at this
picture, because you could always find something new in it; Dad
would show it to visitors, and say: “Ma painted that; ain’t
she a wonder, for an old lady seventy-five?” Agents who had
come with leasing propositions, or lawyers with papers to be
gone over, or foremen coming for orders, would examine it
carefully, and never disagreed with Dad’s judgment.</p>

<p class="pindent">Aunt Emma was the widow of the son who had died a
drunkard; and to her also prosperity had come late in life.
Dad set no limits—the ladies charged anything they wanted, and
even drew checks on Dad’s account. So Aunt Emma went to
the fanciest shops and got herself raiment, and went out to
uphold the prestige of the Ross family in the town or city
where they were staying. There were ladies’ clubs, and Aunt
Emma would attend their functions, and listen to impressive
personalities who rose and said, “Madam Chairman,” and read
papers on the Feminine Element in Shakespeare’s Plays, and
the Therapeutic Value of Optimism, and What Shall We Do for
Our Youth? Once every month the two ladies gave a
tea-party, and Dad always managed to be “spudding in” a new
well, or seeing to a difficult job of “cementing off” on that
afternoon.</p>

<p class="pindent">Aunt Emma particularly patronized the drug-store counters
where they sold cosmetics, and she knew by name the fashionable
young ladies who presided there; also she knew the names
of the latest products they handled, pronouncing these names
in quite naive and shameless American—“Roodge finn dee
Theeayter” and “Pooder der Reeze ah lah corbeel flurry”—which,
it must be added, was the only way she could have got the
sales-ladies to know what she meant. Her dressing-table was
covered with rows of delicate little boxes and jars and bottles,
containing paints and powders and perfumes and beauty clays
and enamels, and she alone knew what else. One of Bunny’s
earliest memories was of Aunt Emma, perched on a chair,
looking like an enlarged parokeet in a harness. She was only
half dressed, paying no attention to him, because he was so
little; so he observed how she was laced and strapped up in
armor—tight corsets and dress-shields and side-garters and
tightly laced little boots. She sat, erect and serious, putting
things on her cheeks and eye-brows, and dabbing herself with
little puffs of pink and white powder; and at the same time
telling Bunny about her husband, deceased many years ago.
He had had many virtues, in spite of his one tragic weakness;
he had had a kind heart, so sweet and generous—“yes, yes,”
said Aunt Emma, “he was a good little man; I wonder where
he is now.” And then, dab, dab, she was patting the tears
away from her cheeks and making them pink again!</p>

<h3>VI</h3>

<p class="pindent">Far down in the ground, underneath the Ross-Bankside
No. 1, a great block of steel was turning round and round. The
under surface of it had blunt steel teeth, like a nutmeg-grater;
on top of it rested a couple of thousand feet of steel tubing,
the “drill-stem,” a weight of twenty tons pressing it down; so,
as it turned, it ate into the solid rock, grinding it to powder.
It worked in the midst of a river of thin mud, which was
driven down through the center of the hollow tubing, and
came up again between the outside of the tubing and the earth.
The river of mud served three purposes: it kept the bit and
the drill-stem from heating; it carried away the ground-up rock;
and as it came up on the outside of the drill-stem, it was pressed
against the walls of the hole, and made a plaster to keep the
walls rigid, so that they did not press in upon the drill-stem. Up
on the top of the ground was a “sump-hole,” of mud and water,
and a machine to keep up the mixture; there were “mud-hogs,”
snorting and puffing, which forced it down inside the stem
under a pressure of 250 pounds to the square inch. Drilling
was always a dirty business; you swam in pale grey mud until
the well came in, and after that you slid in oil.</p>

<p class="pindent">Also it was an expensive business. To turn those twenty
tons of steel tubing, getting heavier every day as they got
longer—that took real power, you want to know. When the big
steam engine started pulling on the chain, and the steel gears
started their racket, Bunny would stand and listen, delighted.
Some engine, that! Fifty horsepower, the cathead-man would
say; and you would imagine fifty horses harnessed to an old-fashioned
turn-table with a pole, such as our ancestors employed
to draw up water from a well, or to run a primitive threshing-machine.</p>

<p class="pindent">Yes, it took money to drill an oil well out here in California;
it wasn’t like the little short holes in the East, where you
pounded your way down by lifting up your string of tools and
letting them drop again. No siree, here you had to be prepared
to go six or seven thousand feet, which meant from three
hundred to three hundred and fifty joints of pipe; also casing,
for you could not leave this hole very long without protection.
There were strata of soft sand, with water running through,
and when you got past these you would have to let down a
cylinder of steel or wrought iron, like a great long stove pipe;
joint after joint you would slide down, carefully rivetting them
together, making a water-proof job; and when you had this
casing all set in cement, you would start drilling with a smaller
bit, say fourteen inches, leaving the upper casing resting firmly
on a sort of shelf. So you would go, smaller and smaller,
until, when you got to the oil-sands, your hole would have
shrunk to five or six inches. If you were a careful man, like
Dad, you would run each string of casing all the way up to
the derrick-floor, so that in the upper part of the hole you
would have four sets of casing, one inside the other.</p>

<p class="pindent">All day and all night the engine labored, and the great
chain pulled, and the rotary-table went round and round, and
the bit ate into the rock. You had to have two shifts of men,
twelve hours each, and because living quarters were scarce in
this sudden rush, they kept the same bed warm all the time. A
crew had to be on the job every moment, to listen and to watch.
The engine must have plenty of water and gas and oil; the
pump must be working, and the mud-river circulating, and the
mixing-machine splashing, and the drill making depth at the
proper rate. There were innumerable things that might go
wrong, and some of them cost money, and some of them cost
more money. Dad was liable to be waked up at any hour of
the night, and he would give orders over the telephone, or
perhaps he would slip into his clothes and drive out to the field.
And next morning, at breakfast, he would tell Bunny about
it; that fellow Dan Rossiger, the night-foreman, he sure was
one balky mule; he jist wouldn’t make any time, and when
you kicked, he said, “All right, if you want a ‘twist-off’.” And
Dad had said, “ ‘Twist-off’ or no ‘twist-off,’ I want you to make
time.” And so, sure enough, there was a “twist-off,” right
away! Dad vowed that Dan had done it on purpose; there
were fellows mean enough for that—and, of course, all they
had to do was to speed up the engine.</p>

<p class="pindent">Anyhow, there was your “twist-off”; which meant that you
had to lift out every inch of your two thousand feet of pipe.
You pulled it up, and unscrewed it, four joints at a time—“breaking
out,” the men called that operation; each four joints,
a “stand,” were stood up in the derrick, and the weary work
went on. You couldn’t tell where the break was, until you
got to it; then you screwed off the broken piece, and threw it
away, and went to your real job, “fishing” for the remainder of
your drill-stem, down in the hole. For this job you had a device
called an “overshot,” which you let down with a cable; it was
big and heavy, and went over the pipe, and caught on a joint
when you pulled it up—something like an ice-man’s tongs.
But maybe you got it over, and maybe you didn’t; you spent
a lot of time jiggling it up and down—until at last she caught
fast, and up came the rest of your stem! Then you unscrewed
the broken piece, and put in a sound piece, and let it all back
into the hole, one stand at a time, until you were ready to start
again. But this time you went at the rate Dan Rossiger
considered safe, and you didn’t nag at him for any more “twist-offs!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Meantime Dad would be spending the day at his little office
down in the business part of the town. There he had a stenographer
and a bookkeeper, and all the records of his various
wells. There came people who wanted to offer him new leases,
and hustling young salesmen to show him a wonderful new
device in the way of an “under-reamer,” or to persuade him
that wrought casing lasts longer than cast steel, or to explain
the model of a new bit, that was making marvelous records
in the Palomar field. Dad would see them all, for they might
“have something,” you never could be sure. But woe to the
young man who hadn’t got his figures just right; for Dad had
copies of the “logs” of every one of his wells, and he would
pull out the book, and show the embarrassed young man exactly
what he had done over at Lobos River with a Stubbs Fishtail
number seven.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then the postman would come, bringing reports from all
the wells; and Dad would dictate letters and telegrams. Or
perhaps the phone would ring—long distance calling Mr. Ross;
and Dad would come home to lunch fuming—that fellow Impey
over at Antelope had gone and broke his leg, letting a pipe
fall on him: that chap with the black moustache, you remember?
Bunny said, yes, he remembered; the one Dad had
bawled out. “I fired him,” said Dad; “and then I got sorry
for his wife and children, and took him back. I found that
fellow down on his knees, with his head stuck between the
chain and the bull-wheel—and he knew we had no bleeder-valve
on that engine! Jist tryin’ to get out a piece of rope,
he said—and his fingers jammed up in there! What’s the use
a-tryin’ to do anything for people that ain’t got sense enough
to take care of their own fingers, to say nothing of their heads?
By golly, I don’t see how they ever live long enough to grow
black moustaches on their faces!” So Dad would fuss—his
favorite theme, the shiftlessness of the working-class whom he
had to employ. Of course he had a purpose; drilling is a
dangerous business at best, and Bunny must know what he
was doing when he went poking about under a derrick.</p>

<p class="pindent">There came a telegram from Lobos River; Number Two
was stuck. First, they had lost a set of tools, and then, while
they were stringing up for the fishing job, a “roughneck” had
dropped a steel crowbar into the hole! They were down four
thousand feet, and “fishing” is costly sport at that depth!
Seemed like there was a jinx in that hole; they had “jammed”
three times, and they were six weeks behind their schedule.
Dad fretted, and he would call up the well every couple of
hours all day, but nothing doing; they tried this device and
that, and Dad phoned them to try something else, but in vain.
The hole caved in on them, and they had to clean out and fish
ahead, run after run. They had caught the tools and jarred
them out, but the crowbar was still down there, wedged fast.</p>

<p class="pindent">The third evening Dad said he guessed he’d have to run
over to Lobos River; it was time to set a new casing anyhow,
and he liked to oversee those cement fellows. Bunny jumped
up, crying, “Take me, Dad!” And Dad said, “Sure thing!”
Grandmother made her usual remark about Bunny’s education
going to pot; and Dad made his usual answer, that Bunny
would have all his life to learn about poetry and history—now
he was going to learn about oil, while he had his father
to teach him. Aunt Emma tried to get Mr. Eaton to say something
in defense of poetry and history, but the tutor kept a
discreet silence—he knew who held the purse-strings in that
family! Bunny understood that Mr. Eaton didn’t mind about
it; he was preparing a thesis that was to get him a master’s
degree, and he used his spare time quite contentedly, counting
the feminine endings in certain of the pre-Elizabethan
dramatists.</p>

<h3>VII</h3>

<p class="pindent">Well, they made the trip back to the old field; and Bunny
remembered all the adventures of the last ride, the place where
they had had lunch, and what the waitress had said, and the
place where they had stopped for gas, and what the man had
said, and the place where they had run into the “speed-cop.”
It was like fishing—that is, for real fish, like you catch in
water, not in oil wells; you remember where you got the big
fish, and you expect another bite there. But the big fish always
come at a new place, said Dad, and it was the same with
“speed-cops.” A cop picked them up just outside Beach City,
passing a speed-trap at forty-seven miles; and Dad grinned
and chaffed the cop, and said he was glad he hadn’t been really
going fast.</p>

<p class="pindent">They got to Lobos River that evening; and there was the
rig, fishing away—screwing the stands of pipe together and
working down into the hole with some kind of grabbing device
on the end, and then hauling up and unscrewing—stand after
stand, fifty or sixty of them, one after another—until at last
you got to the bottom one, only to find that you had missed
your “fish!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Well, Dad said his say, in tones that nobody could help
hearing. If he couldn’t find men who would take care of their
own bones, it was doubtless too much to hope they would take
care of his property. They stood there, looking like a lot of
school-boys getting a birching—though of course the “roughneck”
who was wholly to blame had been turned loose on the
road long ago.</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a salesman from a supply house there with a
patent device which he guaranteed would bring up the obstacle
the first run; so they tried it, and left the device in the hole—it
had held on too tight! Evidently there was a pocket down
there, and the crowbar had got wedged crossways; so they’d
have to try a small chunk of dynamite, said Dad. Ever listen
to an explosion four thousand feet under the ground? Well,
that was how they got the crowbar loose; and then they had
a job of cleaning out, and drilling some more, and setting a
casing to cover the damaged place in the hole.</p>

<p class="pindent">Thus, day by day, Bunny got his oil lessons. He wandered
about the field with Dad and the geologist and the boss driller,
while they laid out the sites for future wells; and Dad took
an envelope and pencil, and explained to Bunny why you
place your wells on the four corners of a diamond, and not
on the four corners of a square. You may try that out for
yourself, drawing a circle about each well, to indicate the
territory from which the oil is drained; you will see that the
diamond shape covers the ground with less overlapping.
Wherever you overlap, you are drilling two holes to get the
same barrel of oil; and only a dub would do that.</p>

<p class="pindent">They drove back to Beach City, and found that Bertie had
come home. Bertie was Bunny’s sister, two years his senior,
and she had been visiting the terribly fashionable Woodbridge
Rileys, up north. Bunny tried to tell her about the fishing-job,
and how things were going at Lobos River, but she was most
cruelly cutting—described him as a “little oil gnome,” and said
that his finger-nails were a “dead give-away.” It appeared
that Bertie had become ashamed of oil; and this was something
new, for of old she had been a good pal, interested in the
business, and arguing with Bunny and bossing him as any
older sister should. Bunny didn’t know what to make of it,
but gradually he came to understand that this was a part of the
fashionable education Bertie was getting at Miss Castle’s school.</p>

<p class="pindent">Aunt Emma was to blame for this. She had granted Jim’s
right to confine Bunny’s training to the making of money, but
Bertie at least should be a young lady—meaning that she
should learn how to spend the money which Dad and Bunny
were going to make. So Aunt Emma got the name of the
most expensive school for young female money-spenders, and
from that time on the family saw little of Bertie; after school
she went to visit her new rich friends. She couldn’t bring
them to her home, there being no real butler—Rudolph was
a “farm-hand,” she declared. She had picked up some wonderful
new slang; if she didn’t like what you said, she would tell
you that you were “full of prunes”—this was away back in
history, you understand. She would give a pirouette and show
off her fancy lingerie, with violet-colored ribbons in it; she
would laugh gleefully: “Aren’t I a speedy young thing?”—and
other phrases which caused grandmother to stare and Dad
to grin. She would be pained by her father’s grammar: “Oh,
Dad, <span class="it">don’t</span> say ‘jist’!” And Dad would grin again, and reply:
“I been a-sayin’ it jist fifty-nine years.” But all the same, he
began a-sayin’ it less frequently; which is how civilization
progresses.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bertie condescended to drive out to the field, and see the
new derricks that were going up. They went for a walk, and
whom should they meet but Mrs. Groarty, getting out of her
elderly Ford car in front of her home. Bunny was naively
glad to see her, and insisted upon introducing Bertie, who displayed
her iciest manner, and, as they went on, scolded Bunny
because of his horrid vulgar taste; he might pick up acquaintance
with every sort of riff-raff if he chose, but certainly he need not
make his sister shake hands with them! Bunny could not
understand—he never did succeed in understanding, all his life
long, how people could fail to be interested in other people.</p>

<p class="pindent">He told Bertie about Paul, and what a wonderful fellow
he was, but Bertie said just what Dad had said, that Paul was
“crazy.” More than that, she became angry, she thought that
Paul was a “horrid fellow,” she was glad Bunny hadn’t been
able to find him again. That was an attitude which Bertie was
to show to Paul all through Paul’s life; she showed it at the
very first instant, and poor Bunny was utterly bewildered. But
in truth, it was hardly reasonable to expect that Bertie, who was
going to school in order to learn to admire money—to find out
by intuition exactly how much money everybody had, and to
rate them accordingly—should be moved to admiration by a
man who insisted that you had no right to money unless you
had earned it!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bertie was following her nature, and Bunny followed his.
The anger of his sister had the effect of setting Paul upon
a lonely eminence in Bunny’s imagination; a strange, half-legendary
figure, the only person who had ever had a chance
to get some of Dad’s money, and had refused it! Every now
and then Bunny would stop by and sit on a rabbit-hutch, and
ask Mrs. Groarty for news about her nephew. One time the
stout lady showed him a badly scrawled note from Ruth
Watkins—Paul’s sister, whom he loved—saying that the family
had had no word; also that they were having a hard time
keeping alive, they were having to kill a goat now and then—and
Mrs. Groarty said that was literally eating up their capital.
Later on there was another letter from Ruth, saying that
Paul had written to her; he was up north, and still on the
move, so no one could get hold of him; he sent a five-dollar
bill in a registered letter, and specified that it was to go for
food, and not for missions. It wasn’t easy to save money when
you were only getting a boy’s pay, Paul said; and again Bunny
was moved to secret awe. He went off and did a strange secret
thing—he took a five-dollar bill, and folded it carefully in a
sheet of paper, and sealed it up in a plain envelope, and
addressed it to “Miss Ruth Watkins, Paradise, California,”
and dropped it into a mail-box.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mrs. Groarty was always glad to see Bunny, and Bunny,
alas, knew why—she wanted to use him for an oil well! He
would politely pay her with a certain amount of information.
He asked Dad about Sliper and Wilkins, and Dad said they were
“four-flushers”; Bunny passed this information on, but the
“medium lots” went ahead and signed up with this pair—and
very soon wished they hadn’t. For Sliper and Wilkins proceeded
to sell the lease to a syndicate, and so there was a tent
on the lot next to the Groarty home, and free lunches being
served to crowds of people gathered up in the streets of Beach
City by a “ballyhoo” man. “Bonanza Syndicate No. 1,” it was
called; and they hustled up a derrick, and duly “spudded in,”
and drilled a hundred feet or so; and Mrs. Groarty was in
heaven, and spent her thousand dollars of bonus money for a
hundred units of another syndicate, the “Co-operative No. 3.”
The crowds trampled her lawn, but she didn’t care—the company
would move her home when they drilled the second well,
and she was going into a neighborhood that was “much
sweller”—so she told Bunny.</p>

<p class="pindent">But then, on his next visit, he saw trouble in the stout
lady’s features. The drilling had stopped; the papers said the
crew was “fishing,” but the men said they were “fishing for
their pay.” The selling of “units” slowed down, the “ballyhoo”
stopped, and then the syndicate was sold to what was called
a “holding company.” The drilling was not resumed, however,
and poor Mrs. Groarty tried pitifully to get Bunny to find out
from his father what was happening to them. But Dad didn’t
know, and nobody knew—until six months or so later, long after
Dad had brought in his Ross-Bankside No. 1 with triumphant
success. Then the newspapers appeared with scare headlines
to the effect that the grand jury was about to indict D. Buckett
Kyber and his associates of the Bonanza Syndicate for
fraudulent sales of oil stock. Dad remarked to Bunny that
this was probably a “shake-down”; some of the officials, and
maybe some of the newspaper men, desired to be “seen” by
Mr. Kyber. Presumably they were “seen,” for nothing more
was heard of the prosecution. Meantime, the owners of the
lease could not get anyone to continue the drilling, for the block
next to them had brought in a two hundred barrel well, which
was practically nothing; the newspapers now said that the
south slope looked decidedly “edgy.”</p>

<p class="pindent">So Bunny, in the midst of his father’s glory, would pass
down the street and encounter poor Mr. Dumpery, coming home
from the trolley with dragging steps, after having driven some
thousands of shingle-nails into a roof; or Mr. Sahm, the
plasterer, tending his little garden, with its rows of corn and
beans that were irrigated with a hose. Bunny would see Mrs.
Groarty, feeding her chickens and cleaning out her rabbit-hutches—but
never again did he see the fancy evening-gown
of yellow satin! He would go inside, and sit down and chat,
in order not to seem “stuck-up”; and there was the stairway
that led to nowhere, and the copy of “The Ladies’ Guide: A
Practical Handbook of Gentility,” still resting on the centre-table,
its blue silk now finger-soiled, and its gold letters
tarnished. Bunny’s eyes took in these things, and he realized
what Dad meant when he compared the oil-game to heaven,
where many are called and few are chosen.</p>

<h3>VIII</h3>

<p class="pindent">Scattered here and there over the hill were derricks, and
the drilling crews were racing to be the first to tap the precious
treasure. By day you saw white puffs from the steam-engines,
and by night you saw lights gleaming on the derricks, and day
and night you heard the sound of heavy machinery turning,
turning—“ump-um—ump-um—ump-um—ump-um.” The newspapers
reported the results, and a hundred thousand speculators
and would-be speculators read the reports, and got into their
cars and rode out to the field where the syndicates had their
tents, or thronged the board-rooms in town, where prices were
chalked up on blackboards, and “units” were sold to people
who would not know an oil-derrick from a “chute the chutes.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Who do you think stood first in the newspaper reports?
You would need to make but one guess—Ross-Bankside No. 1.
Dad was right there, day and night, knowing the men who were
working for him, watching them, encouraging them, scolding
them if need be—and so Dad had not had a single accident, he
had not lost a day or night. The well was down to thirty-two
hundred feet, and in the first stratum of oil-sand.</p>

<p class="pindent">They were using an eight-inch bit, and for some time they
had been taking a core. Dad was strenuous about core-drilling;
he insisted that you must know every inch of the hole, and
he would tell stories of men who had drilled through paying
oil-sands and never known it. So the drill brought up a cylinder
of rock, exactly like the core you would take out of an apple;
and Bunny learned to tell shale from sandstone, and conglomerate
from either. He learned to measure the tilt of the strata,
and what that told the geologist about the shape of things
down below, and the probable direction of the anticline. When
there were traces of oil, there had to be chemical analyses, and
he learned to interpret these reports. Every oil-pool in the
world was different—each one a riddle, with colossal prizes
for the men who could guess it!</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad guessed that he was right over the pool, and so he
had ordered his “tankage.” There was going to be a rush for
this, as for everything else, and Dad had the cash—and still
more important, the reputation for having the cash! He would
get his “tankage” onto the lease, and if he were disappointed
in his hopes for oil—well, somebody else would get it, and they
would be glad to take the “tankage” off his hands. So there
came a stream of heavy trucks, and stacked up on the field
were flat sheets of steel, and curved sheets, all fitting exactly.
You may be sure the buyers of “units” did not fail to make
note of that! They were hanging round the derrick day and
night, trying to pick up hints; they followed the men to their
homes, and tried to bribe them, or to get into conversation with
their wives. As for Bunny, he was about the most popular boy
in Beach City; it was wonderful how many kind gentlemen,
and even kind ladies there were, anxious to buy him ice-cream,
or to feed him out of boxes of candy! Dad forbade him to
say a word to strangers, or to have anything to do with them;
and presently Dad banned discussions at the family table—because
Aunt Emma was chattering in the ladies’ clubs, and the
ladies were telling their husbands, besides gambling “on their
own!”</p>

<p class="pindent">The core showed more signs, and Dad gave orders to build
the foundations of the tanks; then he ordered the tanks put up,
and the clatter of riveting machines was heard, and magically
there rose three ten thousand barrel tanks, newly-painted with
flaming red lead. And then—hush!—they were in the real oil-sands;
Dad set a crew of Mexicans to digging him a trench
for a pipe-line; and the lease-hounds and the dealers in units
discovered that, and the town went wild. In the middle of the
night Dad was routed out of bed, and he called Bunny, and
they jumped into their old clothes and went racing out to the
well, and there were the first signs of the pressure, the mud
was beginning to jump and bubble in the hole! The drilling
had stopped, and the men were hastily screwing on the big
“casing-head” that Dad had provided. He wasn’t satisfied
even with that—he set them to fastening heavy lugs to the
head, and he hustled up a couple of cement-men and built great
blocks of cement over the lugs, to hold her down in spite of
any pressure. There wasn’t going to be a blow-out on Ross-Bankside
No. 1, you bet; whatever oil came through that hole
was going into the tanks, and from there into Dad’s bank
account!</p>

<p class="pindent">It was time for the “cementing off,” to make the well water-proof,
and protect the precious oil-sands. Down there under the
ground was a pool of oil, caught under a layer of impermeable
rock, exactly like an inverted wash-basin. The oil was full of
gas, which made the pressure. Now you had drilled a hole
through the wash-basin, and the oil and gas would come to you—but
only on condition that you did not let any surface water
down to kill the pressure. All the way down you had been
tapping underground streams and pools of water; and now
you had to set a big block of cement at the bottom of the hole,
solid and tight, filling every crevice, both inside and outside
your casing. Having got this tight, you would drill a hole
through it, and on down into the oil-sands, thus making a
channel through which the oil could flow up, and no water
could leak down. This was the critical part of your operation,
and while it was going on the whole crew was keyed up, and
the owner and his son, needless to say.</p>

<p class="pindent">First you put down your casing, known as the “water-string.”
If you were a careful man, like Dad, you ran this
“string” all the way up to your derrick-floor. Next you began
pumping down clean water; for many hours you pumped, until
you had washed the dirt and oil out of the hole; and then you
were ready for the cement-men. They came with a truck, a
complete outfit on wheels, ready to travel to any well. Another
truck brought the sacks of cement, a couple of hundred of them;
the job called for pure cement, no sand. They got everything
ready before they started, and then they worked like so many
fiends—for this whole job had to be put through in less than
an hour, before the cement began to set.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was an ingenious scheme they had, very fascinating to
watch. They fitted inside the casing a cast-iron “packer,”
having rubber discs at the top and bottom, so that it floated
on the water in the casing; the cement went on top of this.
The sacks were jerked open, and dumped into the hopper of
the mixing machine, and the mixer began to revolve, and the
river of grey liquid to pour into the hole. It ran fast, and the
heavy pumps set to work, and drove it down, stroke after
stroke. In half an hour they had filled several hundred feet
of the casing with cement; after which they put on a rubber
“packer,” fitting tight to the casing; and again the heavy pumps
went to work, and drove the mass of cement, between the two
“packers,” down into the hole. When they came to the bottom,
the bottom packer would drop, and the cement would pour in,
and the pressure of the top packer would force it into every
cranny of the hole, and up between the outside of the casing
and the earth—one or two hundred feet high it would rise,
and when it set, there you would have your “water shut-off.”</p>

<p class="pindent">What could be more fun to watch than a job like this? To
know what was going on under the ground; to see the ingenuity
by which men overcame Nature’s obstacles; to see a crew of
workers, rushing here and there, busy as beavers or ants, yet
at the same time serene and sure, knowing their job, and just
how it was going!</p>

<p class="pindent">The job was done; and then you had to wait ten days for
your cement to get thoroughly set. The state inspector came
and made his tests, to be sure you had got a complete “shut-off”;
if you hadn’t, he would make you do it over again—some
poor devils had to do it twenty or thirty times! But
nothing like that happened to Dad; he knew about “cementing
off”—and also about inspectors, he added with a grin. Anyhow,
he got his permit; and now Ross-Bankside No. 1 was
drilling into the real oil-sands, going down with a six-inch hole.
Every few hours they would test for pressure, to be sure they
had enough, but not too much. You were right on the verge
of triumph now, and your pulse went fast and you walked
on tiptoe with excitement. It was like waiting for Christmas
morning, to open your stocking, and see what Santa Claus
had brought! There were crowds staring at the well all day,
and you put up rude signs to make them keep their noses out.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad said they were deep enough now, and they proceeded
to set the last casing—it was known as the “liner,” and had
holes like a sieve, through which the treasure would flow. They
were working late into the night, and both Dad and Bunny
had old clothes on, and were bathed in oil and mud. At last
they had the “liner” all ready, and the tools out, and they
started to “wash” the well, pumping in fresh water and cleaning
out the mud and sand. That would go on for five or six
hours, and meantime Dad and Bunny would get their sleep.</p>

<p class="pindent">When they came back, it was time to “bail.” You understand,
the pressure of the gas and oil was held down by the
column of water, two thirds of a mile deep. Now they had
what they called a “double-section bailer,” which was simply
a bucket fifty feet long. They would let that down, and lift
out fifty feet of the water-column, and dump it into the sump-hole.
Then they would go down for another fifty; and
presently they would find they didn’t have to go down so far,
the pressure was shoving the column of water up in the hole.
Then you knew you were getting near to the end; one or two
more trips of the bailer, and the water would be shot out of
the hole, and mud and water and oil would spout up over
the top of the derrick, staining it a lovely dripping black. You
must drive the crowds off the lease now, and shout “Lights
out!” to the fools with cigarettes.</p>

<p class="pindent">There she came! There was a cheer from all hands, and
the spectators went flying to avoid the oily spray blown by the
wind. They let her shoot for a while, until the water had been
ejected; higher and higher, way up over the derrick—she made
a lovely noise, hissing and splashing, bouncing up and down!</p>

<p class="pindent">It was just at sundown, and the sky was crimson. “Lights
out!” Dad kept calling—nobody must even start a motor-car
while she was spouting. Presently they shut her off, to try the
valve of the casing-head; they worked on, late into the night,
letting her spout, and then shutting her off again; it was
mysteriously thrilling in the darkness. At last they were ready
to “bring her in”—which meant they would screw up the “flow-line”
between the casing-head and the tank, and let the oil run
into the latter. Just as simple as that—no show, no fuss, you
just let her flow; the gauge showed her coming at the rate
of thirty thousand gallons every hour, which meant that the
first tank was full by noon the next day.</p>

<p class="pindent">Yes, that was all; but the news affected Beach City as if
an angel had appeared in a shining cloud and scattered twenty-dollar
gold pieces over the streets. You see, Ross-Bankside
No. 1 “proved up” the whole north slope; to tens of thousands
of investors, big and little, it meant that a hope was turned
into glorious certainty. You couldn’t keep such news quiet,
it just didn’t lie in the possibility of human nature not to tell;
the newspapers bulletined the details—Ross-Bankside was flowing
sixteen thousand barrels a day, and the gravity was 32,
and as soon as the pipe-line was completed—which would be
by the end of the week—its owner would be in possession of
an income of something over twenty thousand dollars every
twenty-four hours. Would you need to be told that the crowds
stared at Dad and at Bunny, everywhere they went about the
streets of the city? There goes the great J. Arnold Ross, owner
of the new well! And that little chap is his son! Say, he’s
got thirteen dollars coming to him every minute of the day or
night, whether he’s awake or asleep. By God, a fellow would
feel he could afford to order his lunch, if he was to have an
income like that!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny couldn’t help but get a sense of importance, and
think that he was something special and wonderful. Little
thrills ran over him; he felt as if he could run up into the air
and fly. And then Dad would say: “Take it easy, son! Keep
your mouth shut, and don’t go a-gettin’ your head swelled.
Remember, you didn’t make this here money, and you can lose
it in no time, if you’re a lightweight.” Dad was a sensible
fellow, you see; he had been through all this before, first at
Antelope, and then at Lobos River. He had felt the temptation
of grandeur, and knew what it must be to a boy. It was pleasant
to have a lot of money; but you must set up a skeleton at the
feast, and while you quaffed the wine of success, you must hear
a voice behind you whispering, “Memento mori!”</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER IV<br /> <span class="sub-head">THE RANCH</span></h1></div>

<h3>I</h3>

<p class="pindent">Soon after this it was time for Bunny to visit his mother.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny’s mother did not bear Dad’s name, as other boys’
mothers do; she was called Mrs. Lang, and lived in a bungalow
on the outskirts of Angel City. There was an arrangement
whereby she had a right to have Bunny with her one week in
every six months; Bunny always knew when this time was
approaching, and looked forward to it with mixed emotions.
His mother was sweet, and gave him the petting which he
missed at other times; “pretty little Mamma,” was her name
for herself. But in other ways the visit was embarrassing,
because there were matters supposed to be kept hidden from
Bunny, but which he could not help guessing. Mamma would
question him about Dad’s affairs, and Bunny knew that Dad
did not wish his affairs talked about. Then too, Mamma
complained that she never had enough money; Dad allowed her
only two hundred dollars a month, and how could a young
and charming grass-widow exist on such a sum? Her garage
bill was always unpaid, and she would tell Bunny about it,
and expect him to tell Dad—but Dad would evade hearing.
And next time, Mamma would cry, and say that Jim was a
tyrant and a miser. The situation was especially difficult just
now, because Mamma had read about the new well in the
papers, and knew just how much money Dad had; she unfolded
to Bunny a plan, that he should try to persuade Dad to increase
her allowance, but without having Dad suspect that she
had suggested it. And this, right after Bunny had renounced
the luxury of small lies!</p>

<p class="pindent">Also there was the mystery about Mamma’s friends. There
were always gentlemen friends who came to see her while
Bunny was there, and who might or might not be agreeable to
Bunny. When he came home, Aunt Emma would ask him
questions, from which it was evident that she wanted to know
about these gentlemen friends, but didn’t want Bunny to know
that she wanted to know. Bunny noticed that Dad never
referred to such matters; he never asked any questions about
Mamma, and Aunt Emma always did her asking out of Dad’s
presence.</p>

<p class="pindent">All this had a peculiar effect upon Bunny. Just as Dad
kept a safe deposit box at the bank, into which nobody ever
looked but himself, so Bunny kept a secret place in his own
mind. Outwardly, he was a cheerful and frank little fellow,
if somewhat too mature for his years; but all the time he was
leading a dual life—picking up ideas here and there, and
carrying them off and hiding them, as a squirrel does nuts, so
that he may come back at a later season and crack them open
and nibble them. Some nuts were good and some were bad,
and Bunny learned to judge them, and to throw away the bad
ones.</p>

<p class="pindent">One thing was plain: there was something which men and
women did, which they were all in a conspiracy to keep you
from knowing that they did. It was a dark corner of life,
mysterious and rather hateful. In the beginning, Bunny was
loyal to his father, not trying to find out what his father didn’t
want him to know. But this could not continue indefinitely, for
the mind automatically seeks understanding. It was not merely
that the birds and the chickens and the dogs in the street gave
you hints; it was not merely that every street-boy knew, and
was eager to explain; it was that the stupid grown-ups themselves
persisted in saying things which you couldn’t help
getting. It was Aunt Emma’s fixed conviction that every lady
was after Dad; “setting her cap at him,” or “making sheep’s
eyes at him”—she had many such phrases. And Dad always
showed a queer embarrassment whenever he had been the least
bit polite to any lady; he seemed to be concerned lest Bunny
should share Aunt Emma’s suspicions. But the truth was,
Bunny was irritated by his aunt, and learned to evade her
questions, and not tell what Dad had said to the nice lady in
the hotel at Lobos River, and whether or not the lady had had
dinner with them. These worldly arts Bunny acquired, but
all the time he was in secret revolt. Why couldn’t people talk
plainly? Why did they have to be pretending, and whispering,
and making you uncomfortable?</p>

<h3>II</h3>

<p class="pindent">Within a week after bringing in Ross-Bankside No. 1, Dad
had a new derrick under way on the lease, and in another week
he had it rigged up, and the old string of tools was on its way
into the earth again. Also he had two new derricks under way,
and two new strings in process of delivery. There would be
four wells, standing on the four corners of a diamond-shaped
figure, three hundred feet on the side. It was necessary to call
house-movers, and take the Bankside homestead to another
lot; but that didn’t trouble Mr. Bankside, who had already
moved himself to an ocean-front palace near Dad, and bought
himself a whole outfit of furniture, and a big new limousine,
also a “sport-car,” in which to drive himself to the country
club to play golf every afternoon. The Bankside family was
accustoming itself to the presence of a butler, and Mrs. Bankside
had been proposed at the most exclusive of the ladies’
clubs. Efficiency was the watch-word out here in the West,
and when you decided to change your social status, you put
the job right through.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad and Bunny made another trip to Lobos River, and not
without some difficulty they conquered the “jinx” in Number
Two, and brought in a very good well. There were to be two
more derricks here, and more tools to be bought and delivered.
That was the way in the oil business, as fast as you got any
money, you put it back into new drilling—and, of course, new
responsibilities. You were driven to this by the forces inherent
in the game. You were racing with other people, who were
always threatening to get your oil. As soon as you had one
well, you had to have “offset wells” to protect it from the
people on every side who would otherwise get your oil. Also,
you might have trouble in marketing your oil, and would begin
to think, how nice to have your own refinery, and be entirely
independent. But independence had its price, for then you
would have to provide enough oil to keep the refinery going,
and you would want a chain of filling-stations to get rid of
your products. It was a hard game for the little fellow; and
no matter how big you got, there was always somebody bigger!</p>

<p class="pindent">But Dad had no kick just now; everything was a-comin’
his way a-whoopin’. Right in the midst of his other triumphs
it had occurred to him to take one of his old Antelope wells and
go a little lower, and see what he found; he tried it—and lo
and behold, at eight hundred feet farther down the darn thing
went and blew its head off. They were in a new layer of
oil-sands; and every one of these sixteen old wells, that had
been on the pump for a couple of years, and were about played
out, were ready to present Dad with a new fortune, at a cost
of only a few thousand dollars each!</p>

<p class="pindent">But right away came a new problem; there was no pipe-line
to this field, and there ought to be one. Dad wanted some
of the other operators to go in with him, and he was going
up there and make a deal. Then Bunny came to him, looking
very serious. “Dad, have you forgotten, it’s close to the fifteenth
of November.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What about it, son?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You promised we were going quail-shooting this year.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“By gosh, that’s so! But I’m frightfully rushed jist now,
son.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You’re working too hard, Dad; Aunt Emma says you’re
putting a strain on your kidneys, the doctor has told you so.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Does he recommend a quail diet?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny knew by Dad’s grin that he was going to make some
concession. “Let’s take our camping things,” the boy pleaded,
“and when you get through at Antelope, let’s come home by
the San Elido valley.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“The San Elido! But son, that’s fifty miles out of our
way!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“They say there’s no end of quail there, Dad.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, but we can get quail a lot nearer home.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I know, Dad; but I’ve never been there, and I want to
see it.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But what made you hit on that place?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny was embarrassed, because he knew Dad was going
to think he was “queer.” Nevertheless, he persisted. “That’s
where the Watkins family live.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Watkins family—who are they?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Don’t you remember that boy, Paul, that I met one night
when you were talking about the lease?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Gosh, son! You still a-frettin’ about that boy?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I met Mrs. Groarty on the street yesterday, and she told
me about the family; they’re in dreadful trouble, they’re going
to lose their ranch to the bank because they can’t meet the
interest on the mortgage, and Mrs. Groarty says she can’t think
what they’ll do. You know Mrs. Groarty didn’t get any money
herself—at least, she spent her bonus money for units, and
she isn’t getting anything out of them, and has to live on
what her husband gets as a night watchman.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What you want to do about it?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I want you to buy that mortgage, Dad; or anything, so
the Watkinses can stay in their home. It’s wicked that people
should be turned out like that, when they’re doing the best they
can.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“There’s plenty o’ people bein’ turned out when they don’t
meet their obligations, son.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But when it’s not their fault, Dad?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It would take a lot of bookkeeping to figger jist whose
fault it is; and the banks don’t keep books that way.” Then
seeing the protest in Bunny’s face, “You’ll find, son there’s a
lot o’ harsh things in the world, that ain’t in your power to
change. You’ll jist have to make up your mind to that, sooner
or later.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But Dad, there’s four children there, and three of them
are girls, and where are they to go? Paul is away, and they
haven’t any way to let him know what’s happened. Mrs.
Groarty showed me a picture of them, Dad; they’re good, kind
people, you can see they’ve never done anything but work hard.
Honest, Dad, I couldn’t be happy if I didn’t help them. You
said you’d buy me a car some day, and I’d rather you took the
money and bought that mortgage. It’s less than a couple of
thousand dollars, and that’s nothing to you.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I know, son; but then you’ll get them on your hands—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No, they’re not like that, they’re proud; Mrs. Groarty
says they wouldn’t take money from you, any more than
Paul would. But if you bought the mortgage from the bank,
they couldn’t help that. Or you might buy the ranch,
Dad, and rent it back to them. Paul says there’s oil on
that ranch—at least his Uncle Eby had seen it on top of the
ground.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“There’s thousands of ranches jist like that in California,
son. Oil on top of the ground don’t mean anything special.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, Dad, you’ve always said you wanted to try some
wild-catting; and you know, that’s the only way you’ll ever
get what you talk about—a whole big tract that belongs to you,
with no royalties to pay, and nobody to butt in. So let’s take
a chance on Paradise, and drive through there and camp out
a few days and get some quail, and we’ll see what we think
of it, and we’ll help those poor people, and give your kidneys
a rest at the same time.”</p>

<p class="pindent">So Dad said all right; and he went away thinking to himself:
“Gosh! Funny kid!”</p>

<h3>III</h3>

<p class="pindent">The San Elido valley lay on the edge of the desert, and
you crossed a corner of the desert to get to it; a bare wilderness
of sun-baked sand and rock, with nothing but grey, dusty
desert plants. You sped along upon a fine paved road, but the
land was haunted by the souls of old-time pioneers who had
crossed it in covered wagons or with pack-mules, and had
left their bones beside many a trail. Even now, you had to be
careful when you went off into side-trails across these wastes;
every now and then a car would get stuck with an empty
radiator, and the people would be lucky to get out alive.</p>

<p class="pindent">You could get water if you sunk a deep well; and so there
were fruit ranches and fields of alfalfa here and there. There
came long stretches where the ground was white, like salt;
that was alkali, Dad said, and it made this country a regular
boob-trap. The stranger from the East would come in and
inspect a nice fruit ranch, and would think he was making a
good bargain to get the land next door for a hundred dollars an
acre; he would set out his fruit-trees and patiently water them,
and they wouldn’t grow; nothing would grow but a little alfalfa,
and maybe there was too much alkali for that. The would-be
rancher would have to pull up the trees, and obliterate the
traces of them, and set a real-estater to hunting for another
boob.</p>

<p class="pindent">Strapped to the running-board of Dad’s car, on the right
hand side where Bunny sat, was a big bundle wrapped in a
water-proof cover; they were camping out—which meant that
the mind of a boy was back amid racial memories, the perils
and excitements of ten thousand years ago. Tightly clutched
in Bunny’s two hands were a couple of repeating shot-guns;
he held these for hours, partly because he liked the feel of
them, and partly because they had to be carried in the open—if
you shut them up in the compartment they would be
“concealed weapons,” and that was against the law.</p>

<p class="pindent">Near the head of the valley a dirt road went off, and a
sign said: “Paradise, eight miles.” They wound up a little
pass, with mountains that seemed to be tumbled heaps of rock,
of every size and color. There were fruit ranches, the trees
now bare of leaves, with trunks calcimined white, and young
trees with wire netting about them, to keep away the rabbits.
The first rains of the season had fallen, and new grass was
showing—the California spring, which begins in the fall.</p>

<p class="pindent">The pass broadened out; there were ranch-houses scattered
here and there, and the village of Paradise—one street, with
a few scattered stores, sheltered under eucalyptus trees that
made long shadows in the late afternoon light. Dad drew up at
the filling station, which was also a feed-store. “Can you tell
me where is the Watkins ranch?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“There’s two Watkinses,” said the man. “There’s old Abel
Watkins—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s the one!” exclaimed Bunny.</p>

<p class="pindent">“He’s got a goat-ranch, over by the slide. It ain’t so easy
to find. Was you plannin’ to get there tonight?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“We shan’t worry if we get lost,” said Dad; “we got a
campin’ outfit.”</p>

<p class="pindent">So the man gave them complicated directions. You took
the lane back of the school-house, and you made several jogs,
and then there were about sixteen forks, and you must get the
right one, and you followed the slide that took the water down
to Roseville, and it was the fourth arroyo after you had passed
old man Tucker’s sheep-ranch, with the little house up under
the pepper trees. And so they started and followed a winding
road that had apparently been laid out by sheep, and the sun
set behind the dark hills, and the clouds turned pink, and they
dodged rocks that were too high for the clearance of the car
and crawled down into little gullies, and up again with a constant
shifting of gears. There was no need to ask about the quail,
for the hills echoed with the melodious double call of the flocks
gathering for the night.</p>

<p class="pindent">Presently they came to the “slide,” which was a wooden
runway carrying water—with many leaks, so that bright green
grass was spread in every direction, and made food for a
big flock of sheep, which paid no attention to the car, nor to
all the tooting—the silly fools, they just <span class="it">would</span> get under your
wheels! And then came a man riding horseback; a big brown
handsome fellow, with a fancy-colored handkerchief about his
neck, and a wide-brimmed hat with a leather strap. He was
bringing in a herd of cattle, and as he rode, his saddle and
his stirrup-straps went “Squnch, squnch,” which was a sort of
thrilling sound to a boy, especially there in the evening quiet.
Dad stopped, and the man stopped, and Dad said “Good
evening,” and the man answered, “Evenin’.” He had a pleasant,
open face, and told them the way; they couldn’t miss the arroyo,
because it was the only one that had water, and they would
see the buildings as soon as they had got a little way up. And
as they went on Bunny said, “Gee, Dad, but I wish we could
live here; I’d like to ride a horse like that.” He knew this
would fetch Dad, because the man looked jist the way Dad
thought a man ought to look, big and sturdy, colored brown
and red like an Injun. Yes, it wouldn’t take much to persuade
Dad to buy the Watkins ranch for his son!</p>

<p class="pindent">Well, they went wabbling on down the sheep-trail, counting
the arroyos, whose walls loomed high in the twilight, crowned
with fantastic piles of rocks. The lights of the car were on,
and swung this way and that, picking out the road; until at last
there was an arroyo with water—you knew it by the bright
green grass—and they turned in, and followed a still more
bumpy lane, and there ahead were some buildings, with one
light shining in a window. It was the ranch where Paul
Watkins had been born and raised; and something in Bunny
stirred with a quite inexplicable thrill—as if he were approaching
the birth-place of Abraham Lincoln, or some person of
that great sort!</p>

<p class="pindent">Suddenly Dad spoke. “Listen, son,” he said. “There might
be oil here—there’s always one chance in a million, so don’t
you say nothin’ about it. You can tell them you met Paul if
you want to, but don’t say that he mentioned no oil, and don’t
you mention none. Let me do all the talkin’ about business.”</p>

<p class="pindent">It was a “California house,” that is, it was made of boards
a foot wide, running vertically, with little strips of “batting”
to cover the cracks. It had no porch, whether front or back,
nothing but one flat stone for a step. The paint, if there had
ever been any, was so badly faded that you saw no trace of
it by the lights of the car. On the other side of the lane, and
farther up the little valley, loomed a group of sheds, with a big
pen made of boards, patched here and there with poles cut
from eucalyptus trees. From this place came the stirring and
murmuring of a great number of animals crowded together.</p>

<p class="pindent">The family stood in the yard, lined up to stare at the
unaccustomed spectacle of an automobile entering their premises.
There was a man, lean and stooped, and a boy, somewhat
shorter, but already stooped; both of them clad in faded blue
shirts without collar, and denim trousers, very much patched,
held up by suspenders. There were three girls, in a descending
row, in nondescript calico dresses; and in the doorway a
woman, a little wraith of a woman, sallow and worn. All six
of them stood motionless and silent, while the car came into the
yard, and stopped, and the engine fell to a soft purring. “Good
evening,” said Dad.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Howdy, brother,” said the man.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Is this the Watkins place!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, brother.” It was a feeble, uncertain voice, but it
thrilled Bunny to the depths, for he knew that this voice was
accustomed to “babble” and “talk in tongues.” Suppose the
family were to “let go,” and start their “jumping” and “rolling”
while Bunny was there!</p>

<p class="pindent">“We’re huntin’,” Dad explained, “and we was told this
would be a good place to camp. You got good water?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“None better. Make yourself to home, brother.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, we’ll go up the lane jist a bit, somewheres out of
the way. You got a big tree that’ll give us shade?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Eli, you show ’em the oak-tree, and help ’em git fixed.”</p>

<p class="pindent">And again Bunny was thrilled; for this was Eli, that had
been blessed of the Holy Spirit, and had the “shivers,” and
had healed old Mrs. Bugner, that had complications, by the
laying on of hands. Bunny remembered every detail about
this family, the most extraordinary he had ever come upon
outside of a story-book.</p>

<h3>IV</h3>

<p class="pindent">Eli moved up the lane, the car following. There was a
big live oak tree with a clear space underneath, and Dad
placed the car so that the lights streamed upon the space—you
never needed to worry about darkness, when you were camping
with a car! They stopped, and Bunny slid over the top of his
door, and went to work on the straps which held the big bundle
to the running-board. He had it off in a jiffy, and unrolled
it, and quite magical were the things which came out of it.
There was a tent, made of such light water-proofed silk that
a structure eight feet square rolled up to a bundle which might
have been a suit of clothes. There were the tent poles, made in
several joints which screwed together; and the stakes, and
a little camp hatchet to drive them with. There were three warm
camping-blankets, besides the water-proof cover, which also
made a blanket. There were two pneumatic pillows, and a
pneumatic mattress, which you sat and puffed at until you were
red in the face—it was great sport! Finally there was a canvas
bag containing a set of camp utensils, all made of aluminum,
and fitting one into another, everything with detachable handles;
and aluminum boxes with several compartments for grub.
When all these things were set in order, you could be as
comfortable in the midst of a desert or on top of a mountain
as in the best hotel room.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mr. Watkins told Eli to help, but Dad said never mind,
they knew jist what to do, and it was easy. So then Mr.
Watkins told Eli to fetch a pail of water; and next he asked
if they’d like some milk—they had only goat’s milk, of course.
Dad said that was fine; and Bunny was transported to the
Balkans, or whatever exciting places he had read about, where
the people live on goat’s milk. Mr. Watkins said for Ruth
to go git some; and Bunny was thrilled again, because Ruth
was the sister that Paul loved, and that he said had “sense.”
Mr. Watkins called after her to fatch some “aigs” too; and
Dad said they’d like some bread—and then Bunny got a shock,
for the old man said they didn’t git no bread, they hadn’t room
to raise grain, and corn didn’t fill out good up here in the hills,
so all they had was taters. And Dad said potatoes would do
jist as good, they’d boil some for supper; and Mr. Watkins said
they’d git ’em quicker if the missus was to bile ’em on the stove—thus
showing a complete misapprehension of the significance
of a camping-trip. Dad said no, they’d want a fire anyway; and
Mr. Watkins said they was gettin’ a nip o’ frost every night
now, and for Eli to rustle ’em up a lot of wood. This was
easily done, for as soon as you went a few feet up the side of
the arroyo you came upon desert brush, much of which was
dead and dry, and Eli tore some of the bushes loose and dragged
them down and broke them to pieces over his knee. Then he
fetched a couple of stones—that also was easy, for you could
hardly walk a dozen feet on the Watkins ranch without hitting
your toe on a stone.</p>

<p class="pindent">Very soon they had a fire going, and the potatoes boiling
merrily in the pot, and a jar of bacon open and sizzling in the
frying pan. Dad did the cooking—it was a dignified occupation,
while Bunny hustled about and set the plates and things on the
water-proof cover which served as a table cloth without a table.
When the bacon was done, Dad cracked the eggs on the side
of the pan, and fried them “with their eyes open.” And there
was the goat’s milk, rich and creamy, cold from the “spring-house;”
you didn’t mind the strong flavor, because you persuaded
yourself it was romantic. The milk was served in
aluminum cups which were part of the camping outfit; and
also there was a plate of honey and comb—sage-honey, brown,
and strong of flavor—which Ruth had brought.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad invited the family to come and have something, but the
old man said no thanks, they had all et. Dad said would they
please at least sit down, because they didn’t seem comfortable
jist standin’ there; so Eli and the three girls, and their mother,
who had joined them, all sat down on stones at a modest
distance from the light, and Mr. Watkins sat on a stone a
little closer, and while they ate Dad talked with him about
the state of the weather, and of the crops, and about their
way of life up here in the hills.</p>

<p class="pindent">And when Dad and Bunny were done, and stretched themselves
on the blankets, feeling fine and comfortable, Mr.
Watkins offered to have the tent put up by Eli, but Dad again
said not to mind, it was very simple and would only take a
few minutes. Then Mr. Watkins said that one of the gals
would wash up for them, and Dad said all right, he’d like
that; so Bunny got the pans and plates together, and the
middle-sized girl, who went by the name of Meelie, carried
them off to the house. And then they chatted some more; and
Bunny saw that Dad was skilfully finding out about the family,
and getting their confidence.</p>

<p class="pindent">Suddenly came a critical moment in the acquaintance; there
was a pause, and in a voice different from his usual one, solemn
and burdened with feeling, Abel Watkins said: “Brother, may
I ask a personal question?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, sure,” said Dad.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Brother, are you saved?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny caught his breath; for he remembered what Paul had
said about Mr. Watkins’ way—if you said anything contrary
to his religion, he would roll up his eyes and begin to pray out
loud and “let go.” Bunny had told Dad about this; and evidently
Dad had figured out what to do. He replied in a tone no less
solemn: “Yes, brother, we are saved.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You been washed in the Blood?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, brother, we been washed.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What is your church, brother.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It is called the Church of the True Word.”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a pause. “I dunno as I know that there message,”
said Mr. Watkins.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I am sorry,” said Dad. “I should like to explain it, but
we’re not permitted to talk about our faith with strangers.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But brother!” Mr. Watkins was evidently bewildered by
that. “We are told in the Book that ‘The Lord has called us for
to preach the Gospel unto them;’ and also, ‘the Gospel must
first be published among all nations.’ ”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Brother,” said Dad, still with the utmost earnestness, “I
understand that; but according to our faith, we get to know
men in friendship, and talk about our religion later. We all
have to respect the convictions of others.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, brother,” said Mr. Watkins; and his voice sort of
faded away, and you could see he did not know what to say
next. He looked at the members of his family, as if seeking
support from them; but they hadn’t yet said anything, except
“Yes, Pap,” when he gave them an order.</p>

<p class="pindent">So it was up to Dad to relieve the embarrassment. “We
come here to look for quail,” he said. “I hear aplenty of
’em about.”</p>

<h3>V</h3>

<p class="pindent">It was growing so cold that the little fire no longer sufficed
for comfort; so the Watkins family took their departure, and
Dad and Bunny set up the tent, and stowed their goods in it,
and Bunny did his job of puffing at the mattress until it was
full. The stars were shining, so they made their bed in the
open. After spreading the blankets, they took off their shoes
and outside clothing, and laid them in the tent, and crawled
under the blankets in a hurry—gee, but that cold made you
jump! Bunny snuggled up into a ball, and lay there, feeling
the night breeze on his forehead; and he remarked: “Say,
Dad, what is the Church of the True Word?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad chuckled. “The poor old crack-brain,” he said; “I
had to get some way to shut him up.”</p>

<p class="pindent">They lay still, and pretty soon Dad was breathing deeply.
But the boy, though he was tired, did not go to sleep at once.
He lay thinking: Dad’s code was different from the one
which Bunny had decided to follow. Dad would lie, whenever
he considered it necessary; he would argue that the other
person could not use the truth, or had no right to it in the
particular circumstances. And yet, this also was plain, Dad
didn’t want Bunny to follow that same code. He would tell
Bunny to say nothing, but he would never tell Bunny to lie;
and as a rule, when he had to do any lying, he would do it
out of Bunny’s presence! There were lots of things like that;
Dad smoked cigars, and he took a drink now and then, but he
didn’t want Bunny to smoke or to drink. It was queer.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny’s head and face were cold, but the rest of him was
warm, and he was drifting, drifting off; his thoughts became a
blur—but then suddenly he was wide awake again. What was
that? The mattress was rocking; it rolled you from side to
side, so that you had to put out your elbows. “Dad!” cried
Bunny. “What’s that?” And Dad came suddenly awake; he
sat up, and Bunny sat up—putting his two hands out to keep
himself steady. “By jiminy!” cried Dad. “An earthquake!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Sure enough, an earthquake! And say, it was queer to feel
the solid ground, that you counted on, shaking you about like
that! The tree began to creak over their heads, as if a wind
were rocking it; they jumped up and got out from under.
A clamor arose, a bleating and moaning—the goats, who liked
this sensation even less than the humans, having no ideas of
earth structures and geological faults to steady their minds.
And then came another kind of clamor—from the Watkins
family, who apparently had rushed out of their cabin. “Glory
hallelujah! Jesus, save us! Lord, have mercy!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad said, “It’s all over now; let’s crawl in, or we’ll have
them folks up here praying over us.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny obeyed, and they lay still. “Gee, that was a terrible
earthquake!” whispered the boy. “Do you think it knocked
down any cities?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It was likely jist local,” answered Dad. “They have lots
of them up here in this hill country.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Then you’d think the Watkinses would be used to them.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“They enjoy makin’ a fuss, I guess. They don’t have so
much excitement in their lives.” And that was all Dad had to
say. He had plenty of excitements in his own life, and was
not specially interested in earthquakes, and still less in the
ravings of religious maniacs. He was soon fast asleep again.</p>

<p class="pindent">But Bunny lay and listened. The Watkins family had
“let go,” and were having a regular holy jumping service, out
there under the cold white stars. They shouted, they prayed,
they laughed and sang, they cried “Glory! Glory!” and
“Amen!” and “Selah!” and other words which Bunny did not
understand, but which may have been Greek or Hebrew, or
else the speech of the archangels. The voice of old Abel
Watkins dominated, and the shrill screams of the children made
a chorus, and the bleating of the goats was like a lot of double
basses in an orchestra. Cold chills ran up and down Bunny’s
back; for, after all, the scientific mind in him, which knew
about earth structures and geological faults, was only a century
or two old, while the instinctive mind which pronounces incantations,
is thousands and perhaps hundreds of thousands of
years old. Priests have wrought frenzies and pronounced
dooms, and because the priests believed them and the victims
believed them, they have worked, and therefore they were
believed more than ever. And now here was an incantation
against earthquakes—and people down on their knees, with
their hands in the air and their bodies swaying—</p>


          <div class="poetry-container" style="">
          <div class="lgp"> <!-- rend=';' -->
<div class="stanza-outer">
<p class="line0">“Chariots to glory, chariots to glory,</p>
<p class="line0">Chariots to glory with the Holy Lamb!”</p>
</div>
</div></div> <!-- end poetry block --><!-- end rend -->

<p class="pindent">Bunny dozed off at last; and when he opened his eyes again,
the dawn was pink behind the hills, and Dad was slipping into
his khaki hunting-clothes. Bunny didn’t stop to rub his eyes,
he popped out of bed and got his clothes on quick—that cold
just froze your bones!</p>

<p class="pindent">He clambered up the hill-side and began pulling dead brush,
and got a fire going and the saucepan on. And then came Eli,
bringing the clean plates and things, and asking whether they
wanted last night’s milk, which was cold, or this morning’s milk,
which was warm. “And say, did you feel that yearthquake!”
asked Eli, in excitement. “Say, that was a terrible yearthquake!
Does you-all have yearthquakes in you-all’s parts?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Eli had pale yellow hair, which had not been cut for some
time, and had not been combed since the “yearthquake.” He
had pale blue eyes which protruded slightly, and gave him an
eager look. He had a long neck with a conspicuous Adam’s
apple. His legs had grown too fast for the pair of worn
trousers which were supposed to cover them, and which revealed
Eli’s shoes without socks. He stood there, staring at every
detail of the equipment and clothing of these city strangers,
and at the same time attempting to probe their souls. “What
does this yere True Word teach about yearthquakes?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad was busy frying the bacon and eggs, and he said they
would like some of this morning’s milk—which was a way to
get rid of Eli. But it didn’t take Eli long to come back, and
he stood and followed every morsel of food as it went into
their mouths; and he told them that the family had “prayed a
mighty power” over that yearthquake, and yearthquakes meant
the Holy Spirit was growing weary of fornications and
drunkenness and lying in the world, and had they been doing
any of them things? Bunny had but a vague idea concerning
fornications, but he knew that Dad had told a whopping big
lie just a short time before that “yearthquake,” and he chuckled
to himself as he thought what a portent the Watkinses would
make out of that, if they knew!</p>

<p class="pindent">The old man came, to make sure they were all right. Mr.
Watkins was a bigger and taller edition of his son, with the
same prominent pale blue eyes and large Adam’s apple; his
face was weather-beaten, heavily lined with care, and you
could see he was a kind old man, honest and good, for all his
craziness. He too talked about the “yearthquakes,” and told
about one which had shaken down brick and concrete buildings
in Roseville a couple of years ago. Then he said that Meelie
and Sadie were going out to school, and they would bring in
some bread if the strangers wanted it. So Dad gave him a
dollar, and they had a little argument, because Mr. Watkins
said they wouldn’t take only the regular price what they got for
the eggs and the milk and the taters at the store, and they
didn’t want no pay for the camping out, because that wasn’t no
trouble to them, they was glad to see strangers; it was a lonely
life they lived up in these here hills, and if it wasn’t for the
Lord and His Gospel, they would have very little pleasure in
life.</p>

<h3>VI</h3>

<p class="pindent">Dad and Bunny strapped on their cartridge belts, which
went over their shoulders, and they loaded up the repeating
shot-guns, and set out up the little valley and over the hills.
Bunny didn’t really care very much about killing quail, he was
sorry for the lovely black and brown birds, that had such proud
and stately crests, and ran with such quick twinkling legs, and
made such pretty calls at sundown. But Bunny never said anything
about these ideas, because he knew Dad liked to hunt, and
it was the only way you could get him away from his work,
and out into the open, which the doctor said was good for
his health. Dad was quick as lightning to swing his gun, and
it looked as if he didn’t aim at all, but apparently he did; and
he never made the mistake that Bunny did, of trying to shoot
at two birds at the same time. Also Dad had time to watch
Bunny and teach him—to make sure that they travelled in an
even line, and didn’t get turned so that one was out in front
of the other’s gun.</p>

<p class="pindent">Well they tramped the hills and the valleys, and the birds
rose, flying in every direction—a whir, and a grey streak—bang,
bang—and either they were gone, or else they were
down. But you didn’t run to pick them up, because there
would be others, they would hide and run, and you moved on,
and banged some more, until finally you gathered up all you
could find, bundles of soft warm feathers, spotted with blood.
Sometimes they were still alive, and you had to wring their
necks, and that was the part Bunny hated.</p>

<p class="pindent">They filled their bags, and then they tramped back to camp,
tired and hungry—oh gosh! Eli came, offering to clean the
birds for them, and they were glad to let him, and gave him
half the birds for the family to eat—it was pitiful to see the
light in the eyes of the poor, half-starved youth when he heard
this news. It isn’t easy to live altogether in the spirit while
you are not fully grown!</p>

<p class="pindent">Eli took the birds to the house, where there was a chopping-block
and pails of water handy; and meantime Bunny stretched
out to rest, with his feet up in front. Suddenly he sat up with
an exclamation. “Dad! Look at that!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Look at what?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“At my shoe!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What is it?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny pulled his foot up close. “Dad, that’s oil!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Are you sure?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What else could it be?” He got up and hopped over, so
Dad could see for himself. “It’s all up over the top.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You sure it wasn’t there before?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Of course not, Dad! It’s still soft. I couldn’t pack up my
shoes like that and not see. I must have stepped into a regular
pool of it. And oh, say—I’ll bet you it was the earthquake!
Some oil came up through a crack!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny took off his shoe, and Dad examined the find. He
said not to get too much excited, it was a common thing to
find oil pools close to the surface; as a rule they were small,
and didn’t amount to anything. But still, oil signs were not
to be neglected; so after lunch they would go out again, and
retrace their steps, and see what they could find.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was easy for Dad to say not to get excited; so little did
he know about his boy’s mind! This was Bunny’s dream, that
he had had for years. You see, Dad was all the time talking
about how he was going to get a real oil-tract some day—one
that belonged to himself alone. He would figure up and show
that when you paid a man a sixth royalty, you were really giving
half your net profits—for you had to pay all the costs, not
merely of the drilling, but of the upkeep and operation of the
well, and the marketing of the oil. The other fellow got half
your money—and didn’t do a thing but own the land! Well,
some day Dad would get a tract of his own discovery, and
have it to himself, so that he could develop it right, and build
an oil-town that he could run right, without any interference
or any graft.</p>

<p class="pindent">How was he to find that tract? That was Bunny’s dream!
He had lived the adventure in a score of different forms; he
would be digging a hole in the ground, and the oil would come
spouting up, and he would cover it over to hide it, and Dad
would buy the land for miles around, and take Bunny into
partnership with him; or else Bunny would be exploring a
cave in the mountains, and he would fall into a pool of oil and
get out with great difficulty. There were many different ways
he had pictured—but never once had he thought of having
an earthquake come and split open the ground, just before he
and Dad were starting out after quail!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny was so much excited that he hardly noticed the
taste of that especially delicious meal of quail and fried potatoes
and boiled turnips. Just as soon as Dad had got his cigar
smoked, they set forth again, keeping their eyes on the ground,
except when they lifted them to study the landmarks, and to
figure whether they had taken this opening through the hills
or that. They had walked half a mile or so, when a couple
of quail rose, and Dad dropped them both, and walked over
to pick them up, and then he called, “Here you are, son!”
Bunny thought he meant the birds; but Dad called again, “Come
over here!” And when the boy was near he said, “Here’s
your oil!”</p>

<p class="pindent">There it was, sure enough; a black streak of it, six or
eight inches wide, wiggling here and there, following a crack
in the ground; it was soft and oozy, and now and then it
bubbled, as if it were still leaking up. Dad knelt down and
stuck his finger into it, and held it up to the light to see the
color; he broke off a dead branch from a bush and poked it
into the crevice to see how deep it was, and how much more
came up. When Dad got up again he said, “That’s real oil,
no doubt of it I guess it won’t do any harm to buy this
ranch.”</p>

<p class="pindent">So they went back. Bunny was dancing, both outside and
inside, and Dad was figuring and planning, and neither of
them bothered about the quail. “Did Mrs. Groarty ever tell
you how much land there is in this ranch?” asked Dad.</p>

<p class="pindent">“She said it was a section.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“We’ll have to find out where it runs. And by the way,
son, don’t make any mistake, now, not a word to any one about
oil, not even after I buy the place. It won’t do any harm to
get a lot of land in these here hills. You don’t have to pay
much for rocks.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But listen, Dad; you’ll pay Mr. Watkins a fair price!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’ll pay him a land price, but I ain’t a-goin’ to pay him
no oil price. In the first place, he’d maybe get suspicious,
and refuse to sell. He’s got nothin’ to do with any oil that’s
here—it ain’t been any use to him, and wouldn’t be in a million
years. And besides, what use could a poor feeble-minded old
fellow like that make of oil money?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But we don’t want to take advantage of him, Dad!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’ll see that he don’t suffer; I’ll jist fix the money so he
can’t give it away to no missionaries, and I’ll always take care of
him, and of the children, and see they get along. But there’s
purely not a-goin’ to be no oil-royalties! And if any of them
ask you about me, son, you jist say I’m in business—I trade in
land, and all kinds o’ stuff. Tell them I got a general store,
and I buy machinery, and lend money. That’s all quite true.”</p>

<p class="pindent">They walked on, and Bunny began to unfold the elements
of a moral problem that was to occupy him, off and on, for
many years. Just what rights did the Watkinses have to the
oil that lay underneath this ranch? The boy didn’t say any
more to his father, because he knew that his father’s mind
was made up, and of course he would obey his father’s orders.
But he debated the matter all the way until they got back
to the ranch, where they saw the old man patching his goat-pen.
They joined him, and after chatting about the quail for a bit,
Dad remarked: “Mr. Watkins, I wonder if you’d come into
the house and have a chat with me, you and your wife.” And
when Mr. Watkins said he would, Dad turned to Bunny,
saying: “Excuse me, son—see if you can get some birds by
yourself.” And Bunny knew exactly what that meant—Dad
thought that his son would be happier if he didn’t actually
witness the surgical operation whereby the pitiful Watkinses
were to be separated from their six hundred and forty acres of
rocks!</p>

<h3>VII</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny wandered up the arroyo, and high on the slope he
saw the goats feeding. He went up to watch them; and so
he got acquainted with Ruth.</p>

<p class="pindent">She sat upon a big boulder, gazing out over the rim of the
hills. She was bare-headed and bare-legged, and you saw that
she was outgrowing the patched and faded calico dress which
was her only covering. She was a thin child, and gave the
impression she was pale, in spite of her brownness; it was an
anaemic brown, without much red in it. She had the blue
eyes of the family, and a round, domed forehead, with hair
pulled straight back and tied with a bit of old ribbon. She
sat tending the flocks and herds, as boys and girls had done
two thousand years ago in Palestine, which she read about in
the only book to be found in the Watkins household. One
week out of three she did this, ten or twelve hours a day, taking
turns with her sisters. Very seldom did anyone come near, and
now she was ill at ease as the strange boy came climbing up;
she did not look at him, and her toes were twisted together.</p>

<p class="pindent">But Bunny had the formula for entrance to her heart. “You
are Ruth, aren’t you?” he asked, and when she nodded, he said
“I know Paul.”</p>

<p class="pindent">So in a flash they were friends. “Oh, where?” She clasped
her hands together and gazed at him.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny told how he had been at Mrs. Groarty’s—saying
nothing about oil, of course—and how Paul had come, and just
what had happened. She drank in every word, not interrupting;
Ruth never did say much, her feelings ran deep, and made no
foam upon the surface. But Bunny knew that her whole soul
was hanging on his story; she fairly worshiped her brother.
“And you never seen him again?” she whispered.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I never really saw him at all,” said Bunny; “I wouldn’t
know him now, if I was to meet him. You don’t know where
he is?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’ve had three letters. Always it’s a new place, and he
says he ain’t stayin’ there. Some day, he says, he’ll come to
see me—jest me. He’s scairt o’ Pap.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What would Pap do?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Pap would whale him. He’s terrible set agin him. He
says he’s a limb of Satan. Paul says he don’t believe what’s
in the Book? Do you believe it?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny hesitated, remembering Dad and his “True Word.”
He decided he could trust Ruth that far, so he told her he didn’t
think he believed quite everything. And Ruth, gazing into his
eyes with intense concern, inquired: “What is it makes yearthquakes?”</p>

<p class="pindent">So Bunny told what Mr. Eaton had taught him about the
earth’s crust and its shrinking, and the faults in the strata,
that were the first to yield to the strain. He judged by the
wondering look on her face that this was the first hint of natural
science that had ever come to her mind. “So you don’t have to
be scairt!” she said.</p>

<p class="pindent">And then Bunny saw the signs of another idea dawning in
her mind. Ruth was gazing at him, more intently than ever,
and she exclaimed, “Oh! It was you sent that money!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Money?” said he, innocently.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Four times they come a letter with a five-dollar bill in it,
and no writin’. Pap said it was the Holy Spirit—but it was
you! Warn’t it?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Thus directly attacked, Bunny nodded his confession; and
Ruth colored, and began to stammer her embarrassed thanks—she
didn’t see how they could ever repay it—they were having
such a hard time. Bunny stopped her—that was all nonsense,
Dad had more money than he knew what to do with. Bunny
explained that Dad was offering to buy the ranch from her
parents, and pay off the mortgage, and let them live there for
as long as they wanted to, for a very small rent. The tears
began to run down Ruth’s cheeks, and she had to turn her
head away; she could not control herself, and it was embarrassing,
because she had nothing with which to wipe the tears
away, every bit of her dress being needed to cover her bare
legs. She slid off the boulder, and had a little sobbing fit
out of his sight; and Bunny sat troubled, not so much by this
display of emotion, as by the ethical war going on in his soul.
He told himself, it was really true that his motive in getting
Dad to come here had been to help the Watkinses; the oil had
been merely a pretext to persuade Dad. For that matter, Dad
would have bought the ranch, just to help the family, and
without any oil; it might have taken some arguing, but he
would have done it! So Bunny comforted himself; but all the
time he was thinking of that surgical operation going on down
in the cabin, while he sat here letting Ruth think of him as a
hero and a savior.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad had said, “What use could a poor feeble-minded old
fellow like that make of oil money?” Dad would argue the
same way about Ruth, Bunny knew: she was healthy and
happy, sitting out there in the sun with her bare brown legs;
it was the best thing in the world for her—far better than
if her legs were covered with costly silk stockings. And that
was all right; but then—some little imp was starting arguments
in Bunny’s mind—why should other women have the silk
stockings? There was Aunt Emma, at her dressing-table, with
not only silk stockings, but corsets imported from Paris, and
a whole drug-store full of fixings; why would it not be good
for Aunt Emma to sit out here in the sun with bare brown
legs and tend the goats?</p>

<h3>VIII</h3>

<p class="pindent">There was Dad’s voice, calling Bunny; so he said good-bye,
and ran down the arroyo. Dad was sitting in the car.
“We’re a-goin’ in to Paradise,” he said. “But first, change
them oil shoes.” Bunny did so, and put the shoes away in
the back of the car. He hopped in, and they drove down the
lane, and Dad remarked, with a cheerful smile, “Well, son, we
own the ranch.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad was amused by the game he had just played, and
told Bunny about it, overlooking the possibility of complications
in Bunny’s feelings. Dad had tactfully begun talking to Mr. and
Mrs. Watkins about the family’s lack of bread, and that had
started Mr. Watkins telling the whole situation. There was a
sixteen hundred dollar mortgage against the ranch, with nearly
three hundred dollars interest overdue, and they had got a final
notice from the bank, that foreclosure proceedings would begin
next week. So Dad had explained that he wanted a place for
summer camping, where his boy could have an outdoor life,
and he would buy the ranch at a fair price. Poor Mrs. Watkins
began to cry—she had been born on this place, it seemed, it
was her homestead. Dad said she didn’t need to worry, they
might stay right on, and have all the farming rights of the
place, he would lease it to them for ninety-nine years at ten
dollars a year. The old man caught Dad’s hand; he had known
the Lord would save them, he said. Dad decided that was a
good lead, so he explained that the Lord had sent him, according
to the revelation of the True Word; after which Mr. Watkins
had done jist whatever the Lord had told Dad to tell him to
do!</p>

<p class="pindent">And J. Arnold Ross had put the affairs of that family in
order, you bet—there would be no more nonsense of giving
away their money to missionaries! The Lord had told Dad
to tell Mr. Watkins that he was to use his money to feed and
clothe and educate his children. The Lord had furthermore
told him that the equity in his land was not to be paid in cash,
but was to consist of certificates of deposit in a trust-company,
which would pay them a small income, about fifteen dollars a
month—a lot better than having to pay the bank nearly ten
dollars a month interest on a mortgage! Moreover, the Lord
had directed that this money was to be held in trust for the
children; and Bunny’s friend Paul could thank Dad for having
saved him a share. Mr. Watkins had said that one of his
sons was a black sheep, and unworthy of the Lord’s care, but
Dad had stated it as a revelation of the True Word that there
was no sheep so black but that the Lord would wash it white
in His own good time; and Mr. Watkins had joyfully accepted
this revelation, and he and his wife had put their names to a
contract of sale which Dad had drawn up. The purchase price
was thirty-seven hundred dollars, which had been Mr. Watkins’
own figure—he had said that this hill land was worth five
dollars an acre, and he figured his improvements at five hundred.
They weren’t really worth that, they were a lot of ruins, Dad
said, but he took the old man’s valuation of them. The contract
provided that Mr. Watkins was to have water sufficient to
irrigate two acres of land, which was jist about all he had
under cultivation now; of course, Dad would give him more,
if he could use it, but Dad wouldn’t take no chance of disputes
about water-rights. In the morning Mr. and Mrs. Watkins
would drive out to Paradise, and Dad would hire a four-passenger
car there, and drive them to some other town, where
they could put the matter into escrow without too much talk.</p>

<p class="pindent">In the meantime, Dad was on his way to Paradise, to set
the town’s one real estate agent to work buying more land
for him. “Why don’t you send for Ben Skutt?” asked Bunny;
but Dad answered that Ben was a rascal—he had caught him
trying to collect a commission from the other party. And
anyhow, a local man could do it better—Dad would buy him
with an extra commission, let Bunny watch and see how it was
worked. Fortunately, Dad had taken the precaution to bring
along a cashier’s check for three thousand dollars. “I didn’t
know jist how long we might camp,” he said, with his sly
humor.</p>

<p class="pindent">So they came to an office labelled, “J. H. Hardacre, Real
Estate, Insurance and Loans.” Mr. Hardacre sat with his feet
on his desk and a cigar in his mouth, waiting for his prey; he
was a lean, hungry-looking spider, and was not fooled for
an instant by Dad’s old khaki hunting-clothes—he knew that
here was money, and he swung his feet to the floor and sat
right up. Dad took a chair, and remarked on the weather,
and asked about the earthquake, and finally said that he had
a relative who wanted to live in the open for his health, and
Dad had jist bought the Abel Watkins place, and he jist
thought he’d like to raise goats on a bigger scale, and could he
get some land adjoining? Mr. Hardacre answered right away,
there was a pile of that hill-stuff to be had; there was the
Bandy tract, right alongside—and Mr. Hardacre got out a big
map and began to show Dad with his pencil, there was close
to a thousand acres of that, but it was mostly back in the hills,
and all rocks. Dad asked what it could be bought for, and Mr.
Hardacre said all that hill-stuff was held at five or six dollars
an acre. He began to show other tracts, and Dad said wait
now, and he got a paper and pencil and began to jot down the
names and the acreage and the price. Apparently everything
around here could be bought—whenever the man failed to
include any tract, Dad would ask “And what about that?” and
Mr. Hardacre would say, “That’s the old Rascum tract—yes,
I reckon that could be got.” And Dad said, “Let’s list them
all,” and a queer look began to come over Mr. Hardacre’s
face—it was dawning upon him that this was the great hour
of his life.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Now, Mr. Hardacre,” said Dad, “let’s you and me talk
turkey. I want to buy some land, if it can be got reasonable.
Of course as soon as people find you want it, they begin to boost
the price; so let’s get that clear, I want it jist enough to pay
a fair price, and I don’t want it no more than that, and if
anybody starts a-boostin’ you jist tell ’em to forget it, and I’ll
forget it, too. But all the land you can buy reasonable, you
buy for me, and collect your commission from the seller in
the regular way, and besides that, you’ll get a five percent
commission from me. That means, I want you to be my man,
and do everything you can to get me the land at the lowest
prices. I don’t need to point out to you that my one idea is
to buy quick and quiet, so people won’t have time to decide
there’s a boom on. You get me?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes,” said Mr. Hardacre. “But I’m not sure how quietly
it can be done; this is a pretty small place, there’s lots of talk,
and it takes time to put through a deal.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It won’t take no time at all if you jist handle it my way
and use good sense. You don’t mention me, you do the buyin’
for an unknown client, and you buy options for cash—that
means, if the people are hereabouts, you close the deals right
off.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But that’ll take quite a bunch of money,” said Mr. Hardacre,
a little frightened.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I got a little change in my pocket,” said Dad, “and I
brought a cashier’s check for three thousand, that I can turn
into cash in the mornin’. You see, Mr. Hardacre, I happen to
be jist crazy about quail shootin’, and I had the idea that if
I found plenty of quail, I’d get a little land to shoot over. But
get this clear, I can shoot quail on one hill jist as good as on
the next—and I don’t let nobody mistake me for a quail!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad took out of his card-case a letter from the president of
a big bank in Angel City, advising whomever it might concern
that Mr. James Ross was a man of large resources and the
highest integrity. Dad had two such letters, as Bunny knew—one
in the name of James Ross and the other in the name of
J. Arnold Ross; the former was the one he used when he
bought oil lands, and no one had ever yet got onto his identity
in time!</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad’s proposition was this: He would make a contract
with Mr. Hardacre, whereby Mr. Hardacre was authorized to
buy ten-day options upon a long list of tracts, of specified
acreage and at specified prices, paying five percent upon the
purchase price for each option, and Dad agreeing to take up
all these options within three days, and to pay Mr. Hardacre
five percent on all purchases. Mr. Hardacre, torn between
anxiety and acquisitiveness, finally said he guessed he’d take
a chance on it, and if Dad threw him down, it would be easy
for him to go into bankruptcy! He sat at his rusty typewriter
and made two copies of the agreement, with a long list of
tracts that were to cost Dad something over sixty thousand
dollars. They read that over twice, and Dad signed it, and
Mr. Hardacre signed it with a rather shaky hand, and Dad
said fine, and counted out ten one hundred dollar bills on the
desk, and said for Mr. Hardacre to get to work right away.
He would do well to have his options all ready for the other
party to sign, and Dad thought he had some blanks in the
car—he wasn’t jist sure, but he’d see. He went out, and Mr.
Hardacre said to Bunny, quite casual and friendly-like, “What
is your father’s business, little man?” And Bunny, smiling
to himself, answered, “Oh, Dad’s in all kinds of business, he
buys land, and lots of things.” “What other things?” And
Bunny said, “Well, he has a general store, and then sometimes
he buys machinery, and he lends money.” And then Dad came
back; through a stroke of good fortune he happened to have
a bunch of option blanks in his car—and Bunny smiled to
himself again, for he never yet had seen the time when Dad did
not happen to have exactly the right document, or the right
tool, or the right grub, or the right antiseptic and surgical tape,
stowed away somewhere in that car!</p>

<h3>IX</h3>

<p class="pindent">They drove back to camp, and it was coming on to sunset
again, and the quail were calling all over the hills. They passed
the horseman bringing in the cattle, and he stopped and had
a chat about the earthquake, and then he rode on, his saddle
and stirrup-straps going “Squnch, squnch.” And Dad said,
“We’ll maybe buy that fellow out before night, and you can
ride his horse.” And they went on, and presently came another
fellow, this time on foot. He was a young chap, tall and lanky,
but stooped as if he had hold of plow-handles; he was wearing
country clothes and a straw hat, and he strode rapidly by them,
staring hard at both of them, barely nodding in answer to
Dad’s friendly “Good evening.” Dad remarked, “Queer-looking
chap, that,” and Bunny retained an impression of a face, very
serious, with a large prominent nose, and a broad mouth
drooping at the corners.</p>

<p class="pindent">They went on, and came to their camp, and built a fire,
and got themselves a gorgeous supper, with a panful of quail
and bacon, and hot cocoa, and toast made of the bread which
Meelie and Sadie had brought in, and some canned peaches
which Bunny had bought. And after supper Bunny saw Ruth
down by the goat-pen, and he strolled over to meet her; she
gazed about timidly, to make certain no one else was near, and
then she whispered, “Paul was here!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny started, amazed. “<span class="it">Paul?</span>” And then suddenly the
truth flashed over him. “That was Paul we passed on the
road!” He described the figure to Ruth, and she said yes, that
had been Paul; he had taken a “hitch-hike” to see her, as he had
promised, and he had brought her fifteen dollars saved from his
earnings. “I told him we didn’t have no need for it now; but
he left it.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Then Bunny cried: “Oh, why didn’t he stop and talk to
Dad and me? He barely nodded to us!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Ruth was evidently embarrassed; it was hard to get her
to talk about Paul any more. But Bunny persisted, he was
so anxious to know Paul, he said, and it seemed as if Paul
didn’t like him. Only then was Ruth moved to tell him what
Paul had said. “He was mad because Pap had sold the ranch.
He says we hadn’t ought to done it.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But what else could you do?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“He says we’d ought to sell the goats, and pay the bank,
and raise strawberries, like some o’ the folks is doin’ here.
We could git along and be independent—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Paul is so proud!” cried Bunny. “He’s so afraid of
charity!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No, it ain’t exactly that,” said Ruth.</p>

<p class="pindent">“What is it then?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well—it ain’t very polite to talk about—” Ruth was
embarrassed again.</p>

<p class="pindent">“What is it, Ruth? I want to try to understand Paul.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, he says your Pap is a big oil man, and he says there’s
oil on this ranch, and you know it, for he told you so.”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a silence.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Is your Pap an oil man?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny forced himself to answer. “Dad’s a business man;
he buys land, and all kinds of things. He has a general store,
and he buys machinery, and lends money.” That was what
Dad had ordered him to say, and it was strictly the truth, as
we know; and yet Bunny considered himself a liar while he
said it. He was misleading Ruth—gentle, innocent, trusting
Ruth, with the wide, candid eyes and the kind, sweet features;
Ruth, who was incapable of a hateful thought or a selfish
impulse, whose whole life was to be one long immolation in
the cause of the brother she loved! Oh, why did it happen
that he had to practice deception upon Ruth?</p>

<p class="pindent">They talked about Paul some more. He had sat up in the
hills most of the afternoon and told his sister about himself.
He was getting along all right, he said; he had got a job with
an old lawyer who didn’t mind his having run away from
home, but would help him to keep hidden. This lawyer was
what was called a free-thinker—he said you had a right to
believe whatever you chose, and Paul was his gardener and
handy man, and the old lawyer gave him books to read, and
Paul was getting educated. It sounded wonderful, and terrible
at the same time—Paul had read a book about the Bible, that
showed it was nothing but old Hebrew history and fairy-tales,
and full of contradictions and bloody murders and fornications,
and things that there was no sense calling God’s word. And
Paul wanted Ruth to read it, and Ruth was in an agony of
concern—but Bunny noticed it was Paul’s soul she was afraid
for, and not her own!</p>

<p class="pindent">Then Bunny went back to Dad, and told him that was Paul
they had passed on the road; and Dad said “Indeed?” and
repeated that he was a “queer looking chap.” Dad wasn’t
interested, he had no slightest inkling of Bunny’s distress of
soul; his thoughts were all on the great discovery, and the deals
he was putting through. He lay on his back, with a pillow
under his head, gazing up at the stars. “There’s one thing sure,
son”—and there was laughter in his voice; “either you and
me move up to front row seats in the oil-game, or else, by
golly, we’ll be the goat and sheep kings of California!”</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER V<br /> <span class="sub-head">THE REVELATION</span></h1></div>

<h3>I</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny was going to school. Aunt Emma and Grandmother
and Bertie had got their way by incessant nagging, and he was
no longer to be a “little oil gnome,” and devote his time to
learning to make money; he was going to be a boy like other
boys, and have a good time, and wear athletic sweaters, and
shout at football games, and be part of a great machine. Mr.
Eaton had been spurred to a last suicidal effort, and had patched
up the weak spots in the mental equipment of his charge, and
Bunny had passed some examinations, and was a duly enrolled
pupil in the Beach City High School.</p>

<p class="pindent">This school occupied two blocks on the outskirts of town,
and consisted of several buildings arranged on three sides of a
Square; elaborate and ornate buildings, a great pride to the city,
as well as a strain upon its purse. The school was free, and to
it came the sons and daughters of that part of the population
which did not have to go to work before the age of eighteen
or twenty. This meant all the moderately well-to-do people;
and the boys and girls, thus constituting an economic stratum,
proceeded to arrange themselves in sub-strata upon the same
principle. Their “secret societies” were forbidden by the
teachers, but flourished none the less; the basis of admission
being wealth and the pleasant things which wealth buys—well-nourished
bodies, and fashionable clothing, and easy manners,
and a playful attitude towards life.</p>

<p class="pindent">The young people were collected into small herds, and
rushed about from room to room, where culture was handed
out to them in properly measured doses. It was an enormous
education-factory, and the parents had paid for the best possible
equipment, but by some process impossible to explain, it was
gradually being taken away from the teachers, and turned over
to the pupils. Every year the young people seemed to be less
interested in work, and more absorbed in what were called
“outside activities”—the athletic-field, the tennis and basket-ball
courts, the big swimming pool and the dancing floor. The boys
and girls were making for themselves a separate world, having
its own standards, its own secret life. They wore pins and
badges, and had pass-words and grips with esoteric significance;
they had elaborate codes, having to do with the wearing of
flowers, or the color of your neck-tie, or the ribbon on your
hat, or the angle at which you affixed a postage stamp to an
envelope.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was a herd life, based in part upon money-prestige, like
the life of the adults, and in part upon athletic prowess. It
consisted in rushing about from one mass-event to another
mass-event. You pitted the powers of your team against those
of some other team, and the ability of your mob to shout louder
than the other mob; you got together and rehearsed these
shoutings, while the teams rehearsed the battles over which you
were to shout. It was all practice for the later and more real
glories of college and university, where the financially and
athletically more powerful students would be taken up by the
great fraternities, and would perform their social and athletic
functions with skill and grace made perfect.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny, as we know, possessed the requirements of a fraternity
career; he had Anglo-Saxon features, and plenty of big
sweaters, and drove to school in a car of that year’s model. He
was taken up by an exclusive society, and was soon in demand
for whatever was going on. He was enormously interested in
everything; he had never imagined there were so many young
people in the world before, and he wanted to know them all.
He raced about with them from one thing to another, and
watched with open eyes and listened with open ears to everything
that came from either the teachers or the pupils. But
all the time there was something which set him apart from the
rest—something sober and old-fashioned and “queer.” It came,
no doubt, from his knowing so much about the oil business;
Bertie was right in her cruel remark that he had oil stains
under his finger-nails. He would never share the idea of other
darlings of luxury, that “money grows on trees;” he knew that
it comes by hard and dangerous work. Also, Bunny had to
meet the situation at home, which he understood quite clearly;
his father wasn’t at all sure that high school was the best place
for a boy, and was watching and listening all the time, to see
what sort of ideas Bunny was getting. So the boy was always
comparing the school’s kind of education with Dad’s kind, and
which was really right?</p>

<p class="pindent">Before starting out in his new career Bunny received what
parents know as a “serious talk”; and that was curious and
puzzling. First, Dad was going to give him a car, and there
must be rules about it. He must give his word never to exceed
the speed limit, whether in the city or outside; and that was
certainly a curious case of the double standard of morals! But
Dad met it frankly; he was mature, and could judge about
speeds; moreover, he had important business for his excuse,
but Bunny was to start for school early, and the rest of the
time he would be driving for pleasure. He might take out
others in his car, but he must never let anyone drive the car but
himself; Dad had no money to run a free garage for a high
school fraternity, and it would be convenient for Bunny to be
able to say, once for all, that his father had laid down the law
in that matter.</p>

<p class="pindent">Furthermore, Dad wanted Bunny to promise him not to
smoke tobacco or drink liquor until he was twenty-one. Here
again was the “double standard,” and Dad was frank about it.
He had learned to smoke, but wished he hadn’t; if Bunny
wanted to acquire the habit, it was his right, but Dad thought
he ought to wait until he was old enough to know what he was
doing, and until he had got his full growth. And the same
applied to liquor. Dad drank very little now, but there had
been a time in his life when he had come close to becoming a
drunkard, and so he was afraid of it, and Bunny’s being allowed
to go to college—at least on Dad’s money—would have to be
dependent upon his promising to avoid the drinking-bouts.
Bunny said all right, sure; that was easy enough for him. He
would have liked to ask more about Dad’s own story, but he
did not quite like to. He had never seen Dad drunk; and it
was a startling idea to contemplate.</p>

<p class="pindent">Finally there was the matter of women; and here, apparently,
Dad could not bring himself to be frank. Two things he said:
first, Bunny was known to have a father with a pile of money,
and this exposed him to one of the worst perils of young men.
All kinds of women would be a-tryin’ to get a-hold of him, jist
in order to get him to spend money on them, or to blackmail
him; and Bunny would be disposed to trust women, so he must
be warned about this. Dad told him dreadful stories about
rich young men, and the women into whose hands they had
fallen, and how it had wrecked their lives and brought shame
upon their families. And then, there was the matter of disease;
loose women were very apt to have diseases, and Dad told
something about this, and about the quacks who prey upon
ignorant and frightened boys. If one got into trouble of that
sort, one must go to a first-class doctor.</p>

<p class="pindent">And that was all Dad had to say. Bunny took it gratefully,
but he wished there might have been more; he would have liked
to ask his father many questions, but he could not bring himself
to do it, in the face of his father’s evident shrinking. Dad’s
manner and attitude seemed to say that there was something so
inherently evil about sex that you jist couldn’t bring yourself
to talk about it; it was a part of your life that you lived in the
dark, and never dragged out into the light. Bunny’s idea was
that his father’s discourse didn’t apply very much to himself.
He knew there were dirty boys, but he was not one, and never
expected to be.</p>

<p class="pindent">The matter was made easier for Bunny by the fact that
he very soon fell severely in love. There were such swarms
of charming young feminine things in the school, it was simply
not possible to escape them, especially when your possessions
and social standing were such that so many of them set out
after you! Some young misses were too bold in their advances,
or too obviously coy, and repelled the shy lad; the one who
secured him was very demure and still, so that his imagination
could endow her with romantic qualities. Rosie Taintor was
her name, and she had hair that made a tail half-way down her
back, and was fluffy on her forehead, with golden glints; she
was even more shy than Bunny, and had little conversation,
but that was not necessary, for she had a great power of admiration,
and had a phrase by which she expressed it: things
were “wonderful”; they grew more and more “wonderful,”
with soulful, mysterious whispers; the oil business was especially
“wonderful,” and Rosie never tired of being told about it,
which pleased Bunny, who had much to tell. Rosie’s father,
and also her mother, were dentists, and this is not an especially
romantic occupation, so naturally the child thought it thrilling
to dash about the country as Bunny did, and direct armies of
labor, and command vast treasures to flow out of the earth.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny would take her for rides; and when they were out
in the country, where it was safe, Bunny would drive with one
hand, and the other hand would rest on Rosie’s, and truly
“wonderful” were the thrills that would steal over both of
them. They were content to ride that way for hours; or to
get out and wander in the hills, and gather wild flowers, and
sit and watch the sunset. Bunny was full of reverence, and
when once or twice he dared so far as to place a kiss upon
his adored one’s cheek, it was with almost religious awe. When
the weather was not suitable for outdoor courtship, he would
visit her home, where the mother and father had a hobby, the
collecting of old English prints; these were framed on all the
walls, and there were stacks of them you could look at, quaint
eighteenth-century scenes of hunting gentlemen in red coats
with packs of hounds, and red-cheeked barmaids serving pots
of ale to topers with big pipes. Bunny would look at these
for hours—for it took only one hand to turn them over. What
is there that is not “wonderful,” when you are so young, and
at the same time so good? It made Bunny walk on air, just to
buy a new straw hat, and meet his chosen one upon the street,
and anticipate her comments!</p>

<h3>II</h3>

<p class="pindent">When Dad took his business trips now he took them alone;
that is, unless he could arrange them for week-ends and holidays.
He didn’t like going alone; and Bunny for his part,
always had a part of his mind on Dad, and when Dad got back,
he would hear all the details of how things were going.</p>

<p class="pindent">There were six wells now at Lobos River, and they were all
“paying big.” Dad had four more drilling, and had deepened
eleven of his old Antelope wells, and had a pipe-line there,
through which a river of wealth was flowing to him. On the
Bankside lease he had six wells, all on production, and he had
paid Mr. Bankside something over a million dollars of royalty,
and had only got started, so he said. He had a good well on
the next lease, the Ross-Wagstaff, and three more drilling, and
out about half a mile to the north he was opening up new
territory with the Ross-Armitage No. 1.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was amazing to see what had happened to the Prospect
Hill field. All over the top of the hill and the slopes a forest
of oil-derricks had arisen, and had started marching across the
fields of cabbages and sugar beets. Seeing them from the
distance, in the haze of sunset, you could fancy an army
of snails moving forth—the kind which have crests lifted high
in the air. When you came near, you heard a roaring and a
grumbling, as of Pluto’s realm; at night there was a scene of
enchantment, a blur of white and golden lights, with jets of
steam, and a glare of leaping flame where they were burning
gas that came roaring out of the earth, and which they had no
way to use.</p>

<p class="pindent">Yes, when you drove past, sitting in a comfortable car, you
might mistake it for fairyland. You had to remind yourself
that an army of men were working here, working hard in
twelve hour shifts, and in peril of life and limb. Also you had
to remember the pulling and hauling, the intrigue and treachery,
the ruin and blasted hopes; you had to hear Dad’s stories of
what was happening to the little fellows, the thousands of investors
who had come rushing to the field like moths to a
candle-flame. Then your fairyland was turned into a slaughter-house,
where the many were ground up into sausages for the
breakfast of the few!</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad had a big office now, with a manager and half a dozen
clerks, and he sat there, like the captain of a battleship in his
conning tower. Whatever might happen to the others, Dad
took care of himself and his own. He had come to be known
as the biggest independent operator in the field, and all sorts of
people came to him with propositions; new, wonderful, glowing
schemes—with Dad’s reputation for solidity, he could organize
a ten or twenty million dollar company, and the investing public
would flock to him. But Dad turned all such things down; he
would wait, he told Bunny, until Bunny was grown up, and
through with this here education business. They would have
a pile of cash by that time and would do something sure enough
big. And Bunny said all right, that suited him. He hoped the
“something big” might be at Paradise, for then he would have
a real share in it. Dad said, sure, the Watkins ranch was his
discovery, and when they come to drill there, the well would
be known as the Ross Junior.</p>

<p class="pindent">They had made no move there; they were waiting, because
of an unfortunate slip-up in the negotiations for the land. An
unkind fate had willed that Mr. Bandy, owner of the big Bandy
tract, had been away from home on the day that Mr. Hardacre
had collected his options; and when Mr. Bandy got back, and
learned about all the sudden purchases, he became suspicious,
and decided that he would hold onto his land. At least, it
amounted to that, for he raised his price from five dollars an
acre to fifty! What made this especially bad, the Bandy tract
lay right next to the Watkins section; it was over a thousand
acres, and ran near to where Dad and Bunny had found the
oil—in fact, Dad thought the streak of oil was on Mr. Bandy’s
land, he couldn’t be sure without a survey. They would wait,
Dad said, and let Mr. Bandy stay in pickle for a few years.
It was like a cat watching a gopher hole, and which would
get tired first. Bunny asked which was Mr. Bandy, the cat
or the gopher; and Dad replied that if anybody ever mistook
Jim Ross for a gopher, he would jist try to show them their
mistake.</p>

<p class="pindent">So they were waiting. Some day that mythical relative of
Dad’s, who was an invalid, was coming into those rocky hills
and tend a few thousand goats; and meantime most of the
ranches were rented to the people who had formerly owned
them. Three or four were vacant, but Dad didn’t worry about
that; he would leave them to the quail, he said, and told Mr.
Hardacre to put up a thousand “No Trespassing” signs over
the whole twelve thousand acres he had bought, so as to
impress Mr. Bandy with Dad’s gluttonous attitude toward small
game.</p>

<h3>III</h3>

<p class="pindent">The greater part of the civilized world had gone to war.
The newspapers which Dad and Bunny read turned themselves
into posters, with streamer-heads all the way across the page,
telling every day of battles and campaigns in which thousands,
and perhaps tens of thousands of men had lost their lives. To
people in California, so peaceful and prosperous, this was a
tale of “old, unhappy far-off things,” impossible to make real
to yourself. America had officially declared neutrality; which
meant that in the “current events” class, where Bunny learned
what was going on in the world, the teacher was expected to
deal with the war objectively, and to rebuke any child who
expressed a partisanship offensive to any other child. To
business men like Dad it meant that they would make money
out of both sides; they would sell to the Allies direct, and they
would sell to the Central powers by way of agents in Holland
and Scandinavia, and they would raise a howl when the British
tried to stop this by the blockade.</p>

<p class="pindent">The price of “gas” of course began to mount immediately.
It seemed to Bunny a rather dreadful thing that Dad’s millions
should be multiplied out of the collective agony of the rest of
the world; but Dad said that was rubbish, it wasn’t his fault
that people in Europe insisted on fighting, and if they wanted
things he had to sell, they would pay him the market price.
When speculators came to him, showing how he, with his big
supply of cash, could make a quick turn-over, buying shoes, or
ships, or sealing-wax, or other articles of combat, Dad would
reply that he knew one business, which was oil, and he had
made his way in life by sticking to what he knew. When
representatives of the warring powers invited him to sign
contracts to deliver oil, he would answer that nothing gave
him more pleasure than to sign such contracts; but they must
change their European bonds into good American dollars, and
pay him with these latter. He would offer to take them to the
little roadside restaurant where they could see the sign: “We
have an arrangement with our bank; the bank does not sell
soup, and we do not cash checks.”</p>

<p class="pindent">On the basis of his father’s reputation for unlimited resources
and invincible integrity, Bunny had been chosen
treasurer of the freshman football team, a position of grave
responsibility, which entitled him to sit on the side-lines and
help the cheer-leaders. While on the other side of the world
men were staggering about in darkness and mud and snow,
blind with fatigue, or with their eyes shot out, or their entrails
dragging in the dirt, the sun would be shining in California,
and Bunny would be facing a crowd of one or two thousand
school children, lined up on benches and shrieking in unison:
“Rah, rah, rah, slippery, slam!—wallibazoo, bazim, bazam!
Beach City.” He would come home radiant, with barely enough
voice left to tell the score; and Aunt Emma would sit beaming—he
was being like other boys, and the Ross family was taking
its position in society.</p>

<p class="pindent">The Christmas holidays came; and Dad was working too
hard, everybody declared; and Bunny said, “Let’s go after
quail!” It wasn’t so hard to pull him loose now, for they had
their own game-preserve—it sounded most magnificent, and it
would obviously be a great waste not to use it. So they packed
up their camping outfit, and drove to Paradise, and pitched
their tent under the live oak tree; and there was the ranch,
and the Watkins family, the same as before, except that the
row of children was a couple of inches taller, and the girls each
had a new dress to cover their growing brown legs. Things
were a whole lot easier with the family, since they had an
income of fifteen dollars a month from the bank, instead of
an outgo of ten dollars.</p>

<p class="pindent">Well, Dad and Bunny went after the quail, and got a bagful; and
incidentally they examined the streak of oil, now
grown dry and hard, and covered with sand and dust. They
went back to camp and had a good feed, and then came Ruth,
to get their soiled dishes; she was taking Eli’s place, she
explained, because Eli had been called to attend Mrs. Puffer,
that was ill with pains in her head. Eli had been doing a power
of good with his healing, it had made a great stir, and people
were coming from all over to have him lay hands on them.
Bunny asked if Ruth had heard from Paul, and she answered
that he had come to see her a couple of months ago, and was
getting along all right.</p>

<p class="pindent">She seemed a little shy, and Bunny thought it might be on
account of Dad lying there listening, so he strolled back to the
house with her, and on the way Ruth confided to him that
Paul had brought her a book to read, to show her she didn’t
have to believe the Bible if she didn’t want to; and Pap had
caught her with that book, and he had took it away and threw
it in the fire, and had whaled her good.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny was horrified. “You mean he beat you?” And Ruth
nodded; she meant that. “What did he use?” cried Bunny,
and she answered that he had used a strap off’n the harness.
“And did he hurt you?” She answered that he had hurt right
smart, it had been a week afore she was able to sit down. She
was a little surprised at his indignation, for it didn’t seem to
her out of the way that a girl almost sixteen years old should
be “whaled” by her Pap; he meant it for her good, he thought
it was his duty to save her soul from hell-fire. And
Bunny could see that Ruth wasn’t sure but her Pap might be
right.</p>

<p class="pindent">“What was the book?” he asked, and she told him it was
called “The Age of Reason”; it was an old-time book, and
maybe Bunny had heard of it. Bunny never had; but naturally,
he resolved to find a copy, and read it, and tell Ruth all that
was in it.</p>

<p class="pindent">He went back to his father, and poured out his indignation;
but Dad took much the same view of the matter as Ruth. Of
course it was a shame for a child to be whipped for trying to
get knowledge, but old Abel Watkins was the boss in his own
family, and had the right to discipline his children. Dad said
he had heard of the book; it was by a famous “infidel” named
Tom Paine, who had had something to do with the American
Revolution. Dad had never read the book, but it was easy to
understand how Mr. Watkins had been outraged by it; if Paul
was reading such things, he had surely traveled far.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny couldn’t rest there; it was too horrible that Ruth
should be beaten because she tried to use her mind. Bunny
kept talking about it all afternoon, there ought to be a law to
prevent such a thing. Dad said the law would only interfere
in case the father had used unusual and cruel punishment.
Bunny insisted that Dad ought to do something, and Dad
laughed, and asked if Bunny wanted him to adopt Ruth.
Bunny didn’t want that, but he thought Dad should use his
influence with the old man. To this Dad answered, it would
be foolish to try to reason with a crank like that, the more you
argued the more set he would become; what influence Dad
possessed, he had got by pretending to agree with the old
man’s delusions.</p>

<p class="pindent">But Bunny wouldn’t drop the subject—Dad could do something
if he would, and he absolutely must. And so Dad thought
for a bit, and then he said: “I’ll tell you, son; what you and
me have got to do is to get a new religion.” Bunny knew this
tone—his father was “kidding” him, and so he waited patiently.
Yes, Dad said, they would have to elaborate the True Word;
they must make it one of the cardinal points in this Word that
girls were never to be beaten by men. There would have to
be a special revelation, jist on that point, said Dad; and so
Bunny began to take an interest. Dad asked him questions
about Paul, what Paul believed, and what Paul had said about
Ruth, and what Ruth had told him about herself. Bunny
realized that Dad was going to try something, and he waited.</p>

<p class="pindent">They shot some more quail, and came back and built a big
camp-fire, and had a jolly supper, and then Dad said, “Now
let’s go start that there religion.” So they strolled down to
the cabin, Dad in deep thought, and Bunny on tiptoe with
curiosity—for you never could tell what Dad would do when
he was in a mood of mischief. In after years the boy used to
look back upon this moment and marvel; what would their
emotions have been, had they been able to foresee the consequences
of their jest—a “revival” movement that was to
shake the whole State of California, or at any rate the rural
portion of it, and of several states adjoining!</p>

<h3>IV</h3>

<p class="pindent">Well, old Mr. Watkins invited them cordially to come in;
and Sadie and Meelie gave up their chairs and sat on a box or
something in a corner of the room. It was the first time that
Bunny had been inside the Watkins’ home, and it gave him a
shuddering sense of poverty. It was bare boards inside, the
same as out; there was a big, unpainted table, and six unpainted
chairs, a few shelves with crockery, a few pans hanging on the
wall, and a stove that rested on a stone where one leg was
broken. That was everything, literally everything—save for
a feeble kerosene lamp, which enabled you to see the rest.
There were two other rooms to the cabin, one for the husband
and wife, and the other for the three girls, who slept in one bed.
Attached to the back of the house was a shed with two bunks
against the wall, the top one occupied by Eli, and the other
vacant, a reminder of the sheep that had strayed.</p>

<p class="pindent">Eli was in the room, having come back from his expedition.
Eli was now eighteen, and had attained the full stature of a
man; also his voice was that of a man, except that now and
then it cracked and went up in a way that would have been
comical, if anybody that listened to Eli ever had a sense of fun.
Just now he was telling his parents and wondering sisters how
the Holy Spirit had blessed him again, the shivers had seized
him, and old Mrs. Puffer had been instantly relieved of her
pains. Mr. Watkins said “Amen!” three or four times, very
loud, and then he turned to Dad, remarking, “The Lord blesses
us in our children.” Dad said yes, that was true, possibly
more true than they knew; he asked, had Mr. Watkins ever
thought of the possibility that the Lord might send a new
revelation into the world? And instantly you could see the
family sit up, and fix their eyes upon Dad, the whole six of
them, as rigid as so many statues. What did their visitor
mean?</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad explained: there had been two revelations so far, to
be found in the old and the new testaments; why mightn’t it
be that the Holy Spirit was preparing another? For a long
time the followers of the True Word had awaited this fulfillment;
the promise was in the Book, for anyone to read. This
New Dispensation would supersede the others, and naturally
would have to be different from the others, and the followers
of the old message might fail to recognize it, jist like the
previous case. Didn’t that seem reasonable? Dad asked; and
Mr. Watkins answered promptly that it did, and for Dad to
go on. So Dad said that this True Word was to be revealed
through the minds of men, and would be a message of freedom;
the Holy Spirit wanted us to seek boldly, and not be afraid;
and presently out of the seeking of many minds the Truth
would come—perhaps from some one who had been despised
and rejected, that would become the corner stone of the new
temple. Dad said all this with the deepest solemnity, and
Bunny listened, not a little bewildered; he had never had any
idea that Dad knew so much Bible-talk—as much as any
preacher!</p>

<p class="pindent">So it seemed to the Watkins family also. The old man
drank in every word, and insisted that Dad should reveal to
them all he knew. And Dad told them that they had one son,
whose words had been reported to him, and seemed to him to
bear the true spirit of the Third Revelation. Dad had met this
son, and been struck by his appearance, for he looked jist like
what followers of the True Word had been taught to expect—he
was tall, and had fair hair and blue eyes, and his look was
grave and his voice deep. So Dad believed that the bearer
of this message of freedom, to which they were charged to
listen, was their eldest son, Paul, whom they mistakenly had
driven from among them.</p>

<p class="pindent">Well, you should have seen the sensation in that family!
Old Mr. Watkins sat with his jaw dropped down, as thunder-struck
as if Dad had sprouted a pair of angel’s wings before
his eyes. Mrs. Watkins’ thin face wore a look of utter rapture,
and her two stringy hands were clasped together in front of
her chin. As for Ruth, she seemed just about ready to slide
off her chair and onto her knees. Everybody seemed to be
pleased but one, and that was Eli. Eli was glaring at Dad,
and suddenly he sprang from his chair, his face contorted; he
shouted, and his voice cracked, and went up shrill and piercing:
“Can he show the signs?” And as Dad delayed to answer, he
shouted again, “I say, can he show the signs? Has he healen
the sick? Has he casted out devils? Do the lame rise up and
walk? Do the dying take up their beds? Tell me that! Tell
me!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Well, sir, it floored Dad; for Eli was the last person in the
room from whom he would have expected an onslaught. Dad
thought of Eli as a gawky farm yokel, who came, with no
socks on, and pants that did not reach his shoe-tops, to bring
the milk and take away the dirty dishes; but here was Eli,
transformed into a prophet of the Lord, and blazing, after
a fashion not unknown to prophets, with a white flame of
jealousy! “<span class="it">I</span> am him who the Holy Spirit has blessed! <span class="it">I</span> am
him who the Lord hath chosen to show the signs! Look at
me, I say—look at me! Ain’t my hair fair and my eyes blue?
Ain’t my face grave and my voice deep?”—and sure enough,
Eli’s voice had gone down again, and Eli was a grown man,
a seer of visions and pronouncer of dooms. “I say beware of
he that cometh as a serpent creeping in the night, to tempt
the souls of they that waver! I say, beware the spawns
of Satan, that lure the soul with false doctrine, and
blast away the Rock of Ages! I give the signs, that all men
may know! I stand by the Four Square Gospel, that was
good enough for my fathers and is good enough for me!
Glory Hallelujah, and Salvation unto they that has washed
their sins in the Blood of the Lamb! Hallelujah!
Hallelujah!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Eli flung up his hands with a mighty shriek, and old Mr.
Watkins rose from his chair, and shouted “Glory! Glory!”
And then a horrible thing began to happen, right there before
your eyes; a kind of convulsion seized upon Eli, his eyes rolled
up, and foam appeared at his lips, and a series of wriggles
started at his shoulders and ran out at his finger tips; and his
knees began to knock together, and his features to work in a
kaleidescope of idiocy. He began to bellow, in an enormous
voice, that you would never have dreamed could be contained
in a body of his size; and what he said was—but you couldn’t
reproduce it, because no one can recollect a jabber of syllables,
and anyhow, it would look too silly on a printed page. But
it had some kind of spell for old Mr. Watkins, it caused him to
throw his two hands up into the air, and jerk his arms as if
he were trying to jump up to heaven with them. “Let go!
Let go!” he shrieked, and began to double up and straighten
out again as if he had been shot through the middle; and old
Mrs. Watkins:—poor frail little woman, made of nothing but
bones and whipcord covered with skin—began to rock and sway
in her chair, and the two little girls slid off onto the floor and
wallowed on their stomachs, and Ruth sat white-faced and
terrified, gazing at the two strangers, and from them to Eli,
bellowing his jabber of syllables like a furious malediction
at Dad.</p>

<p class="pindent">And that was the end of it. Dad backed out, and Bunny
with him, and the two of them crept away through the darkness
to their camp; and all the way Dad whispered, “Jesus Christ!”</p>

<h3>V</h3>

<p class="pindent">The next day was Sunday, or the Sabbath, as the Watkinses
called it; and by the time Dad and Bunny had got their breakfast
in the morning, the family had hitched up their one old
horse to their one old wagon, and departed—the father and
mother riding, and the four young people walking ahead, on
their way to the weekly debauch at the Apostolic Church of
Paradise.</p>

<p class="pindent">That left Dad and Bunny to hunt quail, undisturbed by
public opinion; and in the afternoon they got into their car,
and rode about to make an inspection of the domain they had
purchased, and to meet some of the neighbors, now their tenants.
Dad had a map, showing the various tracts, and as they drove
he was laying out roads and other improvements in his mind;
some day this country would all be settled, he said—and the
thing to begin with was a rock-crusher! There came riding
along the fellow on horseback whom they had met the first
time; they knew now that it was young Bandy, the son of
their enemy, and they exchanged greetings—the cat and the
gopher being polite!</p>

<p class="pindent">They rode up into one of the arroyos where there was a
vacant ranch, the Rascum place. They were surprised to find
a charming little bungalow, with a good porch in front,
completely buried under a bougainvillea vine, which would be
a mass of purple blossoms in the spring. “Gee, Dad,” exclaimed
Bunny, “this is where we ought to come and stay!” The other
answered, there should be somebody to keep it up; there was
a well here, and with a little fixing it would be quite a place.
There was even a cat, and she looked contented; there were
plenty of gophers, Dad said, and it was a good sign for victory
over Mr. Bandy! They laughed together.</p>

<p class="pindent">They followed the “slide” down to Roseville, and saw the
old mission there, and had supper, and came round by way
of Paradise in the evening; and on the outskirts of the town,
just after turning off the highway, they came on a building,
standing in a grove of trees, with lights shining in the windows,
and a murmur of voices within. One voice rose above the
others, a bellowing voice which needed no identifying. It was
the “holy jumpers’ ” church, and Eli was preaching. “Oh,
Dad,” exclaimed Bunny, “let’s hear him!” So they parked the
car and got out, and stood in the shadow of the trees; and
this is what they heard:</p>

<p class="pindent">“—for the days of your trials is ended. Come unto me all
ye that travels and is heavy ladened and I will refreshen you.
For I am the bearer of the True Word! I bring the signs—the
sick shall be healen, and the devils shall be casted out—the
lame shall walk and the dying shall take up their beds!
Brethren, I am sent for to announce unto you the Third
Revelation! Once moreover the Holy Spirit disclothes Himself,
the New Gospel is unfolded to you, according to the prophesies
hitherto fore explained. There was an Old Dispensation, and
it was outgrowed and supercedened, and now the New Testament
is outgrowed and supercedened in the same way, and the
True Word of freedom is handed unto you, and I am him that
is sent to make it known. And woe unto they that doth not
heed, for he shall be casted down into the bottomless pit, and
it were better that a millstone was hanged about his neck and
he was drowned in the sea. Woe unto he that cometh as a
serpent creeping in the night, to tempt the souls of they that
waver! I say, beware the spawns of Satan, that lure the soul
with false doctrine, and blast away the Rock of Ages! I give
the signs that all men may know; and he that follows me
will I bless, and his pains shall be healen, and he shall see
the glory of God and receive the gifts of the Holy Spirit, the
talking in tongues! Glory Hallelujah, and Salvation unto
they that has washed their sins in the Blood of the Lamb!
Hallelujah!”</p>

<p class="pindent">The bellowing voice of Eli was drowned in a chorus of
acclamation, shouts and shrieks and groans, as if the whole
congregation of the Apostolic Church of Paradise were jumping
in their seats or rolling on the floor. As a matter of fact, it
was but a little while before that very thing was happening;
but Dad wouldn’t let Bunny go near to see it, it was too
degrading, he said, and they got into their car and drove off.
“Gee whiz, Dad!” exclaimed the boy. “Eli was saying every
word that you taught him! Do you suppose he really believes
it all?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad answered that only the Holy Spirit could tell that.
Eli was a lunatic, and a dangerous one, but a kind that you
couldn’t put in an asylum, because he used the phrases of
religion. He hadn’t wits enough to make up anything for
himself, he had jist enough to see what could be done with the
phrases Dad had given him; so now there was a new religion
turned loose to plague the poor and ignorant, and the Almighty
himself couldn’t stop it.</p>

<p class="pindent">There came next day a man riding out from Paradise,
bringing a telephone call for Dad; Ross-Armitage No. 1 was in
trouble, and Dad was needed at once. Before they started for
home Bunny managed to have a talk with Ruth, and told her
a wonderful plan that had occurred to him: Dad said there
ought to be some one to live on the Rascum place and keep
it up, and Bunny suggested that Dad should buy some goats
and stock the place, and rent it to Paul, and let Ruth go there
to keep house for him; then Ruth could read all the books she
pleased, and there would be nobody to beat her.</p>

<p class="pindent">Ruth looked happy, but she said Paul would never do that,
he wouldn’t take anybody’s charity. Bunny insisted that it
wouldn’t be charity at all—Dad really wanted some one on the
ranch, and he would make a business arrangement, Paul would
work the place, and pay Dad part of the money. But Ruth
sighed, and said anyhow, Pap would never let her go; he was
more than ever set against Paul, on account of Eli, who was
jealous of Paul, and of Paul’s claim to know things. Eli had
always been that way, but now he was worse, because the city
people had backed Paul, and so Pap didn’t even want her to
talk with Bunny or his father, for fear she would lose her
faith.</p>

<p class="pindent">Ruth was just Bunny’s age, almost sixteen, and Bunny
said it wouldn’t be but two years before she would be of age,
and then she could go where she pleased, Dad said; she could
join Paul, or she and Paul could run the Rascum ranch. Bunny
told her not to be afraid, but to wait, and not bother with that
fool jumping business; it was hateful nonsense, and it wouldn’t
hurt her the least bit to think for herself, and use her common sense,
and wait till she was grown up. Dad would be glad to
help her get an education, and get free from Eli and his
prophesying—for Ruth might be sure Dad didn’t like Eli any
better than Eli liked Dad!</p>

<h3>VI</h3>

<p class="pindent">Three months passed, and Dad brought in the Ross-Armitage
No. 1, and made another big success, and proved
up a lot of new territory, and was hailed again as a benefactor
to the Prospect Hill field. But once more the doctor said he
was overworking; it was time for the Easter holidays, and
Bunny studied the maps, and brought Dad a proposition—the
Blue Mountains were only ten miles from Paradise, and there
was no end of trout fishing there, so why not make their headquarters
at the Rascum ranch, and get some trout? Dad
smiled; Bunny couldn’t keep away from Paradise! To which
Bunny answered that Paradise was his discovery; and besides,
he wanted to see how Ruth was getting along, and to hear
about Paul, and about Eli and his Third Revelation.</p>

<p class="pindent">Right on top of that came a letter from Mr. Hardacre,
the agent, telling how the elder Mr. Bandy had gone out into
a field and been attacked by a bull and was badly crippled;
Mr. Hardacre didn’t believe that young Bandy wanted to work
the ranch, but move to the city, so it might be possible to buy
the place, if Mr. Ross still wanted it. Bunny was all on pins
and needles at that, but Dad told him to keep his shirt on,
that young gophers were a lot easier to catch than old ones;
and he wrote Mr. Hardacre he wasn’t specially keen for the
land, but he would take it at the same price as the rest; he
was coming up fishing in a few days, and would see about it.</p>

<p class="pindent">So then Dad wrote a letter to Mr. Watkins, asking him to
be so good as to have one of the children go and clean the house
at the Rascum ranch and get it ready for them. And Dad told
Bunny to go with Aunt Emma to a furniture store in Beach
City and get a little stuff, including crockery and kitchen things,
and have them put it on a truck and run it out to Paradise;
Bunny had better put in some canned food, too, everything
they’d need, so the place could be ready when they got there.
You can imagine what fun Bunny had with that commission; in
his thoughts he was fitting out this house, not merely for Dad
and him to camp in, but for Paul and Ruth to settle down and
make a home!</p>

<p class="pindent">When you happen to be the son of a successful oil operator,
you can make your dreams come true. Dad and Bunny motored
out, arriving just at sundown, and went directly to the Rascum
place, and there, standing on the front-porch, with the bougainvillea
vine now in full blossom, making a glorious purple arch
above her head, was Ruth; and alongside her was a man—at a
distance Bunny thought it was old Mr. Watkins, but then he
saw it was a young man, and Bunny’s heart went up into his
mouth. He looked at this big, powerful figure, clad in a blue
shirt and khaki trousers held up by suspenders, and with a mop
of yellowish touselled hair. Could it be—yes, Bunny could
never mistake that sombre face, with prominent big nose and
mouth drawn down at the corners; he whispered, excitedly,
“It’s Paul!”</p>

<p class="pindent">And so it was. The pair came forward, and Ruth introduced
her brother to Dad, and Paul said, “Good evening, sir,” and
waited to be sure that Dad wished to shake hands with him.
Then Paul shook hands with Bunny—and it was a strange
sensation to the latter, who had lost all at once the Paul he had
been dreaming, the boy who might have been a good chum—and
had got instead this grown man, who seemed ten years
older than himself, and forever out of his reach.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Did the furniture come?” asked Dad; and Ruth answered
that it had, and everything was in order, they’d have had
supper ready, if they’d been sure that Mr. Ross would arrive;
they’d get it ready right off. Meantime Paul was helping Bunny
carry in the bags, and oh, gee—there was the loveliest little
bungalow you ever laid eyes on, everything spick and span, even
to a pink paper shade over the lamp, and flowers on the center
table! Evidently Ruth had put her heart into that job. She
asked Dad very shyly what he’d like for supper, and Dad said
everything in the place, and very soon the bacon was sizzling
in the pan and making a nice friendly smell; and Paul, having
emptied the car, stood waiting, and Bunny started in right away
to find out all about him, and how he came to be here.</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul explained that he had turned up yesterday, having
come to see Ruth. He had had things out with his father this
time; being nineteen now, he thought he was old enough to
be allowed to take care of himself. Bunny asked if his father
had “whaled” him, and Paul smiled and said his father wasn’t
in condition to whale anybody, he was getting worse with
rheumatism. He was as bitter and implacable as ever, but
told Paul to go his own way to hell, and his father would pray
for him. Bunny noticed right away that Paul no longer referred
to his father as “Pap,” and that he no longer murdered the
English language like the rest of the Watkins family; he talked
like an educated man, as indeed he was.</p>

<p class="pindent">Well, they had supper. Paul and Ruth expected to wait
on the table, but Dad made them sit down, and they had a
little party, the four of them, and it was great fun. Bunny
bombarded Paul with questions about himself and his life;
and incidentally told Paul how he had hunted for him that
night at Mrs. Groarty’s, and why had he run away? They
talked about Paul’s aunt, and the tragedy of her lease, and of
the worthless “units” she had bought. Paul had learned from
Ruth how Bunny had sent money to her, and Paul expressed
his gratitude, and said he would pay it back; he still had that
stubborn pride—he would never ask a favor, and he never thrust
himself forward, but held back until he was called upon.</p>

<p class="pindent">He told how he had lived, and how the old lawyer, his
benefactor, had died just recently, and had left him a part of
his library, all but the law books. It was a most wonderful
treasure, a lot of scientific books, and the best old English
literature. For nearly three years Paul had had the use of
this library, and that had been his life, he had seldom missed
an evening reading until after midnight; also he had studied
a lot during the day, for he had really had very little work to do,
Judge Minter had made a sort of pet of him—having no
children of his own, and being stirred by the idea of a boy who
wanted to educate himself. The Judge had had an old microscope,
and Paul had worked with that, and had made up his
mind to a career; he was going to spend a couple more years
reading science, and then he would get a job in some laboratory,
a janitor’s job, if necessary, and work his way up to do microscopic
work.</p>

<p class="pindent">The things that Paul had learned about! He had read
Huxley and Spencer, and he talked about Galton and Weissmann
and Lodge and Lankester, and a lot of names Bunny had
never even heard of. Poor Bunny’s pitiful little high school
knowledge shrank up to nothing; and how silly seemed football
victories all of a sudden. Dad didn’t know about these matters
either; he was a man well into his fifties, but he had never
met a student of science before! It was interesting to see how
quickly he took hold of these things. Paul told how investigators
were trying to find out whether acquired characteristics could
be transmitted by heredity; it was a most important question,
and Weissmann had cut off the tails of mice, to see if the next
generations would have tails. But Paul said that was silly,
because there wasn’t any real change in a mouse when you
cut off its tail, no vital quality; the thing to find out was, how
long it took the tail to heal up when you cut it off, and whether
the new generations of mice could heal up quicker.</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul said the way to settle the question of inheritance of
acquired characteristics was to stimulate the animals to develop
some new faculty, and see if new generations would develop
it more easily. Dad got the point at once, and said you might
learn something by studying trotting horses and their pedigrees;
to which Paul replied, exactly. Dad would like to know more
about such questions; and Paul had a book with him, which
Dad was welcome to read. Ruth was washing the dishes, and
Paul went out to get some more wood, and Dad looked at
Bunny and said, “That’s a fine young fellow, son”; and then
Bunny felt a glow of pride, right up to the roots of his hair—because,
you see, Paul was his discovery, just like the Paradise
oil field, that was some day going to occupy this spot!</p>

<p class="pindent">So then Dad settled down to talk business with Paul. Dad
wanted some one to occupy this ranch, and Paul said he had
thought it over, and would do it if they could make a fair
arrangement. Dad asked how he could get along, and Paul said
he had saved up three hundred dollars from his wages, and he
would get a few goats, and put in some beans this spring, and
some strawberries that would bring an income next year; he
would pay Dad one-half whatever he got for the crops. They
had an argument over that, for Dad thought he ought to pay
Paul to act as caretaker, but Paul said he wouldn’t take it on
that basis, he would insist on going shares, in the regular way
they rented land in these parts. And when Mr. Ross came on
hunting or fishing trips, Paul of course would move out into
the tent. But Dad said no, he was planning to build himself
a shack, a better place than this, and Paul might help the
carpenter and earn wages if he wanted to. Paul said he could
do the building himself, if Dad said so—everything but hanging
the doors and windows; a fellow learned to do about all the
jobs there were on a ranch. And Dad asked if Ruth would
stay with Paul, and Paul said he would settle here in the
house, and go easy, and Ruth would come to see him, until
gradually their father got used to the idea. It wouldn’t be
possible to keep Paul and Ruth apart—especially now since
Eli was away from home nearly all the time.</p>

<p class="pindent">So Dad asked about Eli, and the development of the Third
Revelation. Only three or four days after Eli had made his
announcement in the Paradise Church, there had come a
deputation from the church at Roseville, saying that they had
heard the fame of Eli’s miracles, and would he come and preach
to them. And Eli preached, and the “signs” were manifested,
and so the new prophet grew bolder. Now he was being driven
about the country in somebody’s costly limousine, and in the
back part of the car was a stack of the crutches of people who
had been “healen.” These crutches would be set up in sight
of each new congregation, and nearly always they were added
to; and there fell over the head of the prophet a shower of
silver dollars and half dollars, and coins, wrapped in banknotes,
Eli had now given himself a title; he was the Messenger of the
Second Coming, and the hour of Christ’s return to earth was to
be made known through him. Sometimes whole congregations
would be swept off their feet and converted to the True Word;
or again, some would be converted, and there would be a split,
and a new church in that place.</p>

<p class="pindent">“How do you suppose he works it?” Dad asked.</p>

<p class="pindent">“He really does cure people,” said Paul; “there are some
about here you can talk to. I’ve been reading a book on
suggestion; it seems that kind of thing has been going on for
thousands of years.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Does he send any money home to his folks?” Dad asked.</p>

<p class="pindent">And Paul smiled, rather grimly. “The money is sacred,”
he said; “it belongs to the Holy Spirit, and Eli is His
treasurer.”</p>

<h3>VII</h3>

<p class="pindent">Next morning they set forth after trout; and on the way
they stopped to see Mr. Hardacre. Before they went in, Dad
cautioned Bunny, “Now don’t you say a word, and don’t make
any faces. Jist let me handle this.” They entered, and Mr.
Hardacre said that he had an offer from young Bandy, speaking
for his father, to sell the ranch for twenty thousand dollars.
Bunny’s heart leaped, and it was well that Dad had warned him,
for he wanted to cry out, “Take it, Dad! Take it!” But he
caught himself, and sat rigid, while Dad said, “Holy smoke,
what does the fellow take us for?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Mr. Hardacre explained, there was about twenty acres of
good land on this tract; and Dad said all right, call that a
hundred an acre, and the improvements, say four thousand,
that meant young Bandy was trying to soak them fourteen
dollars an acre for his thousand acres of rocks. He must think
he had a sucker on his hook.</p>

<p class="pindent">“To tell the truth, Mr. Ross,” said the agent, “he knows
you’re an oil man, and he thinks you’re going to drill this
tract.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“All right,” said Dad. “You jist tell him to hunt round
and find somebody to drill his own tract, and if he gets any
oil, I’ll drill mine. Meantime, the land I got now will raise all
the quail the law will let me shoot in a season.”</p>

<p class="pindent">The end was that Dad said he would pay twelve thousand
cash, and otherwise he’d forget it; and after they had got into
the car and started the engine, Bunny whispered, “Gee whiz,
Dad, aren’t you taking a chance?” But Dad said, “You let
him stay in pickle a while. I got all the land I can drill right
now.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But Dad, he might get some one else to drill it!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Don’t you worry! You want that land, because you got
a hunch; but nobody else has got any hunches around here,
and young Bandy’ll get tired after he’s tried a while. Let’s
you and me go a-fishin’.”</p>

<p class="pindent">So they went, and drew beautiful cold shiny trout out of
a little mountain lake, and late in the evening they got back
to the Rascum place, and Paul fried the fish, and the three of
them had a gorgeous supper, and afterwards Dad smoked a
cigar and asked Paul all sorts of questions about science. Dad
said he wished he had-a got that kind of education when he was
young, that was a sort of stuff worth knowing; why didn’t
Bunny study biology and physics, instead of letting them fill
his head up with Latin and poetry, and history business about
old kings and their wars and their mistresses, that wasn’t a
bit of use to nobody?</p>

<p class="pindent">Next morning they said good-bye to Paul, and went back
into the mountains, and spent most of the day getting fish; and
then they set out for Beach City, and got in just about bed-time.
Bunny went back to school, and his new duties as
treasurer for the baseball team; and Dad set to work putting
four more wells on the Armitage tract, and three on the Wagstaff
tract. And meantime the nations of Europe had established
for themselves two lines of death, extending all the way across
the continent; and millions of men, as if under the spell of
some monstrous enchantment, rushed to these lines to have their
bodies blown to pieces and their life-blood poured out upon the
ground. The newspapers told about battles that lasted for
months, and the price of petroleum products continued to pile
up fortunes for J. Arnold Ross.</p>

<p class="pindent">Summer was here, and Bertie had plans for her brother.
Bertie was now a young lady of eighteen, a brilliant, flashing
creature—she picked out clothing shiny enough for a circus
dancer. Her trim little legs were sheathed in the glossiest and
most diaphanous silk, and her fancy, pointed shoes were without
a scratch. If Bertie got a dress of purple or carmine or orange
or green, why then, mysteriously, there were stockings and
shoes, and a hat and gloves and even a hand-bag of the same
shade; Dad said she would soon be having sport-cars to
match. Dad was grimly humorous about the stacks of bills,
and not a little puzzled by this splendid young butterfly he had
helped to hatch out. Aunt Emma said the child was entitled
to her “fling,” and so Dad paid the charges, but he stood as
solid as Gibraltar against Bertie’s efforts to push him into her
social maelstrom. By golly, no—he was scared to death of
them high muckymucks, and especially the women, when they
glared at him through their law-nets, or whatever they called
them—he felt the size of a potato-bug. What could he say to
people that didn’t know an under-reamer from a sucker-rod
rotator?</p>

<p class="pindent">This vulgar attitude had been taken up by Bunny, who
thought it was “smart”—so his sister jeered. Of course a
young lady of eighteen hardly condescends to be aware of the
existence of a kid of sixteen; but there were younger brothers
and sisters of Bertie’s rich friends, and she wanted Bunny to
scrape the oil from underneath his finger-nails, and come into this
fashionable world, and get a more worthwhile girl than Rosie
Taintor. Bunny, always curious about new things, tried it for
a while, and had to confess that these ineffable rich young
persons didn’t interest him very much; he couldn’t see that they
knew anything, or could do anything special. Their talk was
all about one another, and they had so many cryptic allusions
and so much home-made slang that it amounted almost to a new
language. Bunny didn’t like any of them well enough to be
interested in deciphering it, and he would rather put on his
oil clothes and drive out to the wells that were drilling, and if
there was no other job for a “roughneck,” he would help the
cathead-men and the tool-dressers to scrape out the mass of
sand and ground-up rock that came out with the mud, and
that was forever choking the way to the sump-hole.</p>

<p class="pindent">Meantime Bunny was thinking, and pretty soon he had a
scheme. “Dad,” said he, “what about that cabin we were
going to build at Paradise?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, what?” asked Dad.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Paul writes that Ruth has come to stay with him. So next
fall, when we want to go after quail, there won’t be any place
for us. Let’s go up there now, and have a holiday, and build
that cabin now.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But son, it’s hot as Flujins up there in summer!” Bunny
didn’t know where or what “Flujins” might be; but he answered
that Paul was standing it, and anyhow it was good for you to
sweat, Dad was getting too heavy, and he could sit under the
bougainvillea vine in a Palm Beach suit while Bunny did
carpentry work with Paul, and it would be a change, and Bunny
would call up Dr. Blakiston and have him order it. Whereupon
Dad grinned, and said all right, and he might jist as well adopt
that Watkins pair and be done with it.</p>

<p class="pindent">So they went up to the Rascum ranch, taking their tent
along—and Paul and Ruth insisted on giving up the house, and
Ruth slept in the tent, and Paul made his bed in the empty
hay-mow. Paul had hired a horse and plow, and had a flourishing
vegetable garden and big patch of beans, and had set in
strawberries which he was tending with a little hand cultivator;
they had half a dozen goats, and plenty of milk, and some
chickens which Ruth took care of.</p>

<p class="pindent">And most amazing of all, Paul had got the books from
Judge Minter’s library. Most of them were still in boxes,
because there was no place for them; but Paul had made some
shelves out of a packing-box, and there stood Huxley and
Haeckel and Renan, and other writers absolutely fatal to the
soul of any person who reads them. But “Pap” had given up,
Ruth said, she had got too growed up all of a sudden, too big
to be “whaled;” and besides, Pap’s rheumatix was terrible, and
Eli couldn’t heal it. Dad said that when they were ordering
the lumber for the cabin they would get some stuff for bookshelves,
and Paul could build them during the winter. Dad
and Paul had another argument, and Dad said this was his
house, wasn’t it, and he sure had a right to put some bookshelves
in it if he wanted them; Paul could lend him some
books when he come up here, and jist help him get a bit of
education, even now, as old as he was.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was a happy family, and a fine place to be, because it
took Dad’s mind off his wells, and his trouble with one of
his best foremen, that had gone and got married to a fool
flapper, and didn’t have his mind on his work no more. They
got the lumber from the dealer at Roseville, and Paul was the
“boss-carpenter,” and Bunny was the “jack-carpenter,” and
Dad kind of fussed around until he got to perspiring too hard,
and then he went and sat under the bougainvillea blossoms, and
Ruth opened him a bottle of grape-juice, that was part of the
fancy stuff he had brought in.</p>

<p class="pindent">And then in the evening they would drive into Paradise and
get the mail, and there came a little local paper that old Mr.
Watkins took, and Bunny began to look it over, and gosh-amighty,
look at this, Dad—a story on the front page, about
the marvelous meeting that Eli had held at Santa Lucia, and
how frenzied the worshipers had got, and Eli had made the
announcement that he had been commissioned to build the
Tabernacle of the Third Revelation, which was to be all of
snow-white marble, with a frieze of gold, and was to occupy
one entire block in Angel City, and be of exactly the dimensions
which had been revealed to Eli in a dream. The dimensions
were given, and Dad said they were bigger than any block
that Eli would find in Angel City, but no doubt they’d find a
way to get round that, and call it a new Revelation. The
Roseville “Eagle”—that was the name of the paper—was boastful
of Eli, who was “putting the San Elido valley on the map,”
it said. The Apostolic Church of Paradise was to be rebuilt
out of the “free will offerings” at Eli’s meetings; but the old
structure would be preserved, so that pilgrims might come
to visit the place where the True Word had been handed
down.</p>

<p class="pindent">And then came Mr. Hardacre, meeting them on the street.
He said that young Bandy had got tired of his idea that Dad
was going to drill; he wanted to take his parents to the city
and be a business man, so the family would take Dad’s offer
if it was still open. Dad said all right, to let him know, he’d
come in any time, and they’d put it into escrow. Next day
Mr. Hardacre drove out to the Rascum place, and said he’d
taken the escrow officer out to the Bandy place, and old Mr.
Bandy and his wife had signed the agreement to deliver the
deed; and so Dad and Bunny got into their car, and drove
to the bank, and Dad put up four thousand dollars, and
signed a contract to pay eight thousand more when the title
search was completed. Then, when they were out of the
bank, he grinned and said, “All right, son, now you can drill
your tract!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Of course, Bunny wanted to go right to it—wanted Dad to
telephone for his head foreman, and get a road contractor at
work! But Dad said they’d finish the cabin first, and meantime
he’d be thinking. So Bunny went back to work, nailing shingles
on the roof, and he was happy as a youngster could be—except
for one uncomfortable thought that was gnawing like a worm
in his soul. How could he tell Paul and Ruth about their
decision to drill, and would Paul and Ruth consider that Dad
had got the Watkins ranch upon false pretences?</p>

<p class="pindent">Fate was kind to Bunny. Something happened—you could
never guess it in a thousand years! Only three days had passed
since they put through the Bandy deal, and Dad was still
thinking matters over, when Meelie Watkins came walking
from her home—with a big blue sun-bonnet to protect her from
the mid-day sun—and brought an amazing piece of news. Old
Mr. Wrinkum, driving in from town, had stopped by, and told
Pap that a big oil concern, the Excelsior Petroleum Company,
had leased the Carter ranch, on the other side of the valley,
about a mile west of Paradise, and was going to start drilling
for oil! Meelie gave this news to Dad, who was sitting under the
bougainvillea; and Dad shouted to Bunny and Paul, who were
up laying the floor of the cabin. The two came running, and
Ruth came running from her chicken-yard, and when they
heard the news, Bunny cried, “Excelsior Pete! Why, Dad,
that’s one of the Big Five!”</p>

<p class="pindent">They stared at each other, and suddenly Dad clenched his
hands and exclaimed, “By golly, them people don’t drill unless
they know what they’re doin’. Bunny, I believe I’ll try a well
here on our place, and see what we get!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, Mr. Ross!” exclaimed Ruth. “You ought to do it—my
Uncle Eby always used to say there was oil here!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Is that so?” said Dad. “Well, I’ll take a chance then,
jist for fun.” And he looked at Bunny, with just the flicker
of a smile. It told Bunny a lot, when he came to think it over;
Dad had guessed that Bunny was worried, and exactly what was
his dilemma with the Watkinses; and Dad had had the wit to
save Bunny’s face, and avoid the need of confessing. Dear,
kind old Dad, that was anxious to do everything for his boy—that
would even do his lying for him! How could any boy
refuse to be content with such a happy solution of his ethical
problems?</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER VI<br /> <span class="sub-head">THE WILD-CAT</span></h1></div>

<h3>I</h3>

<p class="pindent">Dad had thought things over, and studied his bank account,
and given his decision; they would drill the Ross Junior-Paradise
No. 1, and do it quick, and give the “Excelsior Pete”
crowd a run for their money; there was no use letting the Big
Five think they owned the whole oil industry. Dad would stick
here and see things started; so he phoned for his geologist, and
hunted up a contractor to figure over a well for water.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mr. Banning, the geologist, came next day, and gave Bunny’s
hopes a knock over the head at the very outset. He said Dad
was right in his idea that you couldn’t count very much on that
streak of oil on the top of the ground. You might come on
oil-sands one or two hundred feet down, but they wouldn’t be
likely to amount to much; if that was all you were looking for,
you might bring in one of those little drilling-rigs on wheels
such as they used back in Pennsylvania! But out here, said
Mr. Banning, the real oil-sands lay deep, and you never knew
what you’d find till you got there. But he liked the looks of
the district, and thought it worth a chance; he spent a couple
of days wandering over the hills with Dad and Bunny, studying
the slope of the strata, and finally he and Dad chose the side
of a hill on the Watkins ranch, not far from the place where
Bunny had sat and talked with Ruth while she tended the goats.</p>

<p class="pindent">The water-well man came, offering to drill a four-inch
well for $2.12 a foot; and Dad signed a contract with him, on
the basis of his making so many feet a day, and getting a bonus
if he went above that, and paying a forfeit if he fell below it.
After which Dad and Bunny drove over to pay a visit to Mr.
Jeremiah Carey, a rancher near Roseville, who was chairman
of the county board of supervisors, which had to do with the
all-important question of road construction.</p>

<p class="pindent">A great part of the road passed through Dad’s own property;
and it had been Bunny’s naive idea that Dad would call in a
contractor, and pay the price, as in the case of the water well.
But Dad said no, that wasn’t the way you did with roads; it
was a public road, running from Paradise to Roseville, down
along the slide, and it would be graded and paved at public
expense. To be sure, Dad would use this road more than anyone
else, but also he would pay some of the taxes; all the people
owning property along the slide would pay a share, and the
new road would increase the value of their property.</p>

<p class="pindent">All this Dad explained, first to Bunny, and then to Mr.
Carey, a friendly old fellow who grew apricots and peaches
on the slopes of a ridge overlooking the San Elido valley. Mr.
Carey was evidently pleased to meet a famous oil operator,
and he took them up to the house and made them sit comfortable
in big porch chairs, and called to Mrs. Carey to bring some
lemonade for Bunny. Dad produced his gold-foil cigars, and
told the chairman of the county board of supervisors what a
great thing it was going to mean for this whole section if oil
developments came in; he told about the Bankside lease at Prospect
Hill, and the million and more which he had paid to the
Bankside family, and the palace on the beach front which Mr.
Bankside was now occupying; you could see the eyes of Mr.
and Mrs. Carey open wider and wider, as Dad visioned this
slope covered with a forest of oil-derricks. Absolutely, the
whole thing depended upon one problem, that of roads.
Manifestly, you couldn’t bring in derrick materials and drilling
tools and heavy machinery over that sheep-track which they
now had, and which had jist broken a spring on Dad’s new
motor-car; nor could the county expect Dad to improve a public
road at his own expense, in order to have the privilege of paying
tens of thousands of dollars of new taxes into the county
treasury. To all of which Mr. Carey agreed.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad went on to say that it was a question of time; if the
county authorities were going to dilly-dally along, and keep
him waiting—why then, he had plenty of other tracts he could
drill, and he would keep this here Paradise place for a quail-preserve.
Mr. Carey looked worried, and said he’d do his best,
but of course Mr. Ross understood that public affairs didn’t
move in a hurry, you had to issue bonds to pave a new road,
and there would have to be a special election to vote them.
Dad said that was what he had come to find out about; if
that was the case, it was all off so far as he was concerned.
Wasn’t there some way this work could be done at once, on
the basis of its being repairs to an old road, instead of new
paving? And Mr. Carey said of course, they had funds for
repair work, he didn’t know just how much, he’d have to consult
his associates on the board.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mr. Carey got up and strolled down to the car with Dad
and Bunny; and as they stood there chatting, Dad took out
an envelope from his pocket, and said: “Mr. Carey, I’m asking
a lot of your time, and it ain’t fair you should work for
nothing. I hope you won’t take offense if I ask you to let me
pay your gasoline and tire-cost while you’re running about
a-seein’ to this.” Mr. Carey hesitated, and said he didn’t know
whether that would be exactly proper or not; and Dad said it
would be understood, it was jist for Mr. Carey’s time, it
wouldn’t change his judgment as to what should be done; they
would have other dealings, no doubt, and perhaps some day
Dad would come wild-catting on Mr. Carey’s ranch. The other
put the envelope into his pocket, and said Dad would hear from
him soon.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now Bunny had been taking a course in school which was
called “civics,” and had learned all about how the government
of his country was run. There had been many discussions in
class, and among other things they had mentioned “corruption
of public officials.” Bunny—of course without any hint that he
had ever had personal knowledge of such a thing—had asked
the lady teacher about the possibility of a business man’s paying
a public official extra sums for his time and trouble in public
matters; and the lady teacher had been shocked by such a
suggestion, and had declared that it would be bribery without
question. So now Bunny told Dad, and the latter explained.
It was the difference between a theoretical and a practical view
of a question. The lady-teacher had never had to drill an oil
well, her business didn’t depend on moving heavy materials
over a sheep-trail; all she did was jist to sit in a room and use
high-soundin’ words, like “ideals” and “democracy” and “public
service.” That was the trouble with this education business,
the people that taught was people that never done things, and
had no real knowledge of the world.</p>

<p class="pindent">In this case it all came down to one question, did they want
to drill the Watkins tract or not. Of course they might wait
ten years, till in the course of the county’s development somebody
else come in and did what Dad was now a-doin’—put
skids under the public authorities, and “greased” the skids. In
a great many cases the authorities were greedy, they went out
on purpose to hold you up and make you pay; in other cases
they was jist ignorant and indifferent; but anyhow, if you
wanted things done you had to pay for them. Dad explained
the difference between public and private business; in your own
business, you were boss, and you drove ahead and pushed things
through; but when you ran into public authorities, you saw
graft and waste and inefficiency till it made you sick. And
yet there was fools always rooting for public ownership;
people who called themselves Socialists, and wanted to turn
everything over to the government to run, and when they had
their way, you’d have to fill out a dozen application blanks and
await the action of a board of officials before you could buy a
loaf of bread.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad said that Bunny would get a practical course in civics,
that he could take back to his teacher; they wasn’t going to get
their road, jist by paying a tip to one apricot-grower. And
sure enough, they didn’t! A couple of days later Dad got
Mr. Carey on the phone, and learned that he had interviewed
the other board members, and feared there would be some
opposition; the board came up for re-election this fall, and there
had been a lot of grumbling over the waste of road funds,
and nobody wanted to take on any more troubles. There was
to be a meeting of the board next week, and meantime, if Dad
had any influence, it would be a good time for him to use it.
Dad repeated this to Bunny, and explained, he was supposed to
call on the other board members and distribute some more
envelopes. “But I’ll do it wholesale,” said Dad, “and I’ll do it
quick—before the Excelsior Pete crowd wake up to what’s
happening. That’s our only chance, I’ve an idea.”</p>

<p class="pindent">So Dad strolled into the office of Mr. Hardacre, the real
estate agent, and through the smoke of a gold-foil cigar he put
to that knowing gentleman the problem of what people he, Mr.
Hardacre, would call on, in case he wanted to get a road built
in San Elido county. Mr. Hardacre laughed and said that first
he’d go to see Jake Coffey, and after that he’d go home and
rest. Further questions elicited the fact that Jake Coffey was
a hay and feed dealer in the town of San Elido, the county seat;
also, he was the Republican boss of the county. Dad said all
right, thanks, and he and Bunny were soon in the car, and
headed for San Elido at Dad’s customary speed. “Now, son,”
said he, “you’ll finish your lesson in civics!”</p>

<h3>II</h3>

<p class="pindent">Jacob Coffey, Hay, Feed and Grain, Lime, Cement and
Plaster, sat in the private office behind his store, with his feet
on a center table from which the remains of a poker game had
not yet been cleaned. He was a hard-bitten individual with
tight-shut mouth and other features to correspond; his skin
was tanned to leather, and all his teeth were gold, so far as
they showed. He got his feet off the table and stood up;
and when he heard Dad’s name, he said: “I was rather expecting
you’d call.” Dad said: “I only jist heard about you. I
came at fifty miles an hour.” So they were friends, and Mr.
Coffey accepted a gold-foil cigar instead of his half-chewed one,
and they sat down to business.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Mr. Coffey,” said Dad, “I am an independent oil man;
what the Big Five call one of the ‘little fellers’—though not
so little that I won’t show here in San Elido county. I’ve
bought twelve thousand acres, and want to prospect for oil.
If there’s any here, I’ll put a couple of hundred wells on the
tract, and employ a thousand men, and pay a few million dollars
in wages, and double real estate values for five or ten miles
around. Now, Excelsior Pete is here; and of course they’ll
fight to keep me or anyone else out. The thing I want to show
you political fellers is that these big companies never put up
the dough unless they have to, and it most all goes to the state
machine, anyhow. Like everything else, they need a little
competition to keep them softened up. Us independents pay
more, and we make the big fellows pay more too. I assume
I’m talking to a man who knows this game.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You may assume it,” said Mr. Coffey, drily. “Exactly
what do you want?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“For the present, jist one thing—a road to Paradise. It’s
a case of no road, no drilling, and that’s no bluff, but a fact
you can understand, because you haul heavy material yourself,
and you may have tried to deliver over that there sheep-trail.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I have,” said Mr. Coffey.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, then, no words needed. I want a road, and I want
it without no red tape—I want the county to start work within
the next ten days, and jist push the job right through, so that
I can get in here and drill my well, now while I got a rig to
spare. Maybe that’s never been done before, but it’s what
I want, and I’ve come to ask what it’s worth. Do I make
myself clear?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Perfectly,” said Mr. Coffey, and his hard face yielded to
a slight smile. It was evident that he liked Dad’s business
methods.</p>

<p class="pindent">He told his side of the case; and Bunny understood that he
was bargaining, drawing a fancy picture of the tremendous
difficulties involved. The county machine had been having a
peck of trouble of late, some damned fool had stolen some
money—a silly thing to take the county’s money, said Mr.
Coffey, when you could make so much more in legitimate ways.
Also there had been criticism of road contracts; they had a
crank in this town that published a weekly paper, the “Watch-Dog,”
and filled it with reckless charges. Well, the long and
short of it was that to use the emergency repair funds of the
county to build a road for an oil operator, would be bound to
stir up a lot of fuss, and lose votes which the county machine
needed. As Mr. Ross had said, the Excelsior Pete crowd, who
already had a road to their tract, wouldn’t favor Dad’s road;
they might furnish material for the crank’s weekly paper, and
they might make a kick to the state committee, and make Mr.
Coffey’s life a little hell.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad listened politely—as the process of bargaining required.
He said that he appreciated all these troubles, and would expect
to make up for them. In the first place, there would be the
job of carrying the county supervisors into office. Would it
seem a fair proposition if Dad were to contribute five thousand
dollars to the war chest of the campaign committee? Mr.
Coffey blew a big cloud of grey-blue tobacco-smoke into the
air, and sat gazing fixedly at the figure 5 and three O’s written
in these clouds.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You understand,” Dad added; “that’s a party matter, and
separate from any proposition I make to you personally.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Let’s have your whole idea,” said Mr. Coffey, quietly.</p>

<p class="pindent">So Dad gave his “spiel” about believing in co-operation,
and how he always got a little organization together wherever
he worked, and stood by his friends and gave them a share
of what he made. He told about his Ross-Bankside No. 1, and
how he had formed a syndicate for that well, and, in order to
make sure of getting his derrick material on the spot, he had
let the president of a big lumber company have two percent
of it—jist a little friendly service, and the well had earned so
far nearly six hundred thousand dollars net profits, and the
president of this company had made over twelve thousand, jist
for his trouble in seeing that Dad always got his lumber the
day he asked for it.</p>

<p class="pindent">And now here was the same thing; if Dad could get a road,
he would gamble on the Paradise tract, and Mr. Coffey might
gamble with him. Dad offered to “carry” him to the amount
of two percent of the well; the cost would run over a hundred
thousand dollars, so Mr. Coffey would be getting a two thousand
dollar investment, and if the well became a producer, he
might get five or ten, or even thirty or forty thousand dollars;
such things had happened many times, and were to be
reckoned on. Of course, Dad would expect this to mean that
he and Mr. Coffey would be friends; they would work together,
and help each other with any little favors that might
be needed.</p>

<p class="pindent">And Mr. Coffey puffed several more clouds of smoke, and
studied them, and said he felt friendly to Dad; but he thought
it would be better if Dad would contribute two thousand dollars
to the campaign fund, and carry five thousand for Mr. Coffey
personally. And Dad, looking him in the eye, inquired, “Can
you deliver the goods?” Mr. Coffey said yes, he could deliver
them all right, Dad needn’t have any worries. So it was a
bargain, and Dad took out his check-book and wrote out two
thousand dollars to the order of the treasurer of the county
campaign committee of the Republican party. Then he asked
Mr. Coffey whether he held any public office, and the latter
replied no, he was just a plain business man; so Dad said all
right then, the agreement could be in Mr. Coffey’s name; and
he wrote a memorandum to the effect that he had received the
sum of one dollar and other good and valuable considerations,
in return for which Mr. Coffey was owner of five percent
interest in the net profits of a well to be drilled on the Abel
Watkins ranch near Paradise, to be known as the Ross Junior-Paradise
No. 1. But it was understood and agreed that the
said well was not to be drilled until there was a good hard
road completed from the main street of Paradise to the entrance
of the Abel Watkins ranch, and if the said road were not
completed within sixty days the said J. Arnold Ross was under
no obligation to drill the said well, nor to return to the said
Jacob Coffey the said one dollar and other good and valuable
considerations. And Dad handed that to the said Jacob Coffey,
and smiled, and remarked that he hoped it wouldn’t fall into
the hands of the “Watch-Dog.” Mr. Coffey smiled, and laid
his hand on Bunny’s shoulder, and said he hoped this young
man wouldn’t make any mistake and talk about it; and Dad
said that Bunny was learning the oil business, and the first
lesson he had learned was never to talk about his father’s
affairs.</p>

<p class="pindent">So then they shook hands all round, and the two got into
their car, and Bunny exclaimed, “But Dad, I thought you
were a Democrat!” And Dad laughed and said that he wasn’t
deciding the tariff on hyperchlorides, nor the independence of
the Philippine Islands, he was jist gettin’ a road to the Watkins
ranch. Bunny said, “There’s one thing I don’t understand;
how can Mr. Coffey do all that, if he hasn’t any office?” To
which Dad answered that the big fellows as a rule avoided
holding office for that very reason, so they were free to do
business. Mr. Carey could be sent to prison if it were proven
that he had taken money from Dad, but nothing could be done
to Coffey, he was jist the “boss.” The office-holder, said Dad,
was either a poor devil who needed a fifth-rate salary, or else
he was a man actuated by vanity, he liked to make speeches, and
be applauded by the crowd, and see his picture in the
papers. You would never see pictures of Jake Coffey in the
papers, he done his work in his back office, and never in the
lime-light.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny, of course, remembered what he had been taught in
the “civics” class, and asked if that was the way the business
of government was always run. Dad said it was about the
same everywhere, from the county up to the state, and on to
the national government. It wasn’t really as bad as it seemed,
it was jist a natural consequence of the inefficiency of great
masses of people. It was all right to make spread-eagle
speeches on “democracy,” but what was the fact? Who was
the voters here in San Elido county? Why, the very boobs
that Bunny had seen “jumping” and “rolling” and “talking in
tongues” at Eli’s church; and could anybody pretend that these
people could run a government? They were supposed to decide
whether or not Dad should have a road and drill a well! It
was a sure thing they couldn’t do it; and Jake Coffey was the
feller that done the deciding for them—he provided that
promptness and efficiency that business men had to have, and
that couldn’t be got under our American system.</p>

<h3>III</h3>

<p class="pindent">The water-well men got to work, and the telephone linemen;
and Dad said it was time to figure on living quarters
for their crew. They would get along with a bunk-house while
they were prospecting; then, if they found oil, they’d put up
nice cabins for the families of the men. Dad said to Paul that
he was foolish to waste his time on beans and strawberries,
which would keep him a pauper all his life; he had better turn
carpenter and do this building job, and after that he could
learn oil-drilling. Dad would have his boss-carpenter come
and figure the materials for the bunk-house, and see to the
foundations and the sills, and after that Paul could finish the
job with carpenters he’d pick up in the neighborhood, and Dad
would pay him five dollars a day, which was jist about five
times what he’d get working this old ranch by himself.</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul said all right, and they sat down one evening and made
out the plans of the house. It was going to be real nice, Dad
said, because this was Bunny’s well, and Bunny was turning
into a little social reformer, and intended to feed his men on
patty de far grar. Instead of having one long room with
bunks, they’d have little individual cubby-holes, each with its
separate window, and two bunks, one on top of the other, for
the day man and the night man. There would be a couple
of showers, and besides the dining-room and kitchen and store-room,
a nice sitting-room, with a victrola and some magazines
and books; that was Bunny’s own idea, he was a-goin’ to have
a sure enough cultured oil-crew.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad and Bunny took a drive to Roseville, to get some
furniture and stuff for their own cabin, which was now complete.
Dad purchased a copy of the “Eagle,” fresh off the press,
and he opened it, and burst into a roar of laughter. Bunny
had never seen him do that in his life before, so he looked
in a hurry, and there on the front page was a story about one
Adonijah Prescott, a rancher who lived near the slide between
Paradise and Roseville; some three months ago his wagon had
been overturned and his collar-bone broken, and now he was
filing suit against the county for fifteen thousand dollars
damages; more than that, he was suing each and every member
of the county board of supervisors, alleging neglect of their
public duties in leaving the road in an unsafe condition! On
the editorial page appeared a two-column discourse on the
dreadful condition of the aforesaid road; there were mineral
springs nearby, and it had been proposed to develop them, but
the project had been dropped, because of lack of transportation;
and now there were possibilities of oil, but these also were in
danger, because of bad roads, which kept San Elido one of
the most backward counties of the state. The “Eagle” stated
that a public-spirited rancher, Mr. Joe Limacher, was circulating
a petition for immediate repairs to the road along the
slide, and it was to be hoped that all citizens and tax-payers
would sign up.</p>

<p class="pindent">Next day along came Mr. Limacher, in a rusty Ford, and
asked Dad to sign! Dad looked very thoughtful, and said it
would cost him a hell of a lot of taxes. The public-spirited
Mr. Limacher—who was being paid three dollars a day by
Jake Coffey—argued a while with Dad, and in the end Dad said
all right, he didn’t want his neighbors to think him a cheapskate,
so he’d sign along with the rest. Four days later came
the news that the supervisors had held a special meeting and
voted immediate repairs to the slide road; and two days after
that came the grading gang, teams of big horses with heavy
plows—you’d never have guessed there were so many in the
county, there must have been a score of them on that two
mile stretch. They tore up the ground, and men with crow-bars
rolled the boulders out of the way, and more teams with
scrapers slid the dirt this way and that, and pretty soon it
began to look like a highway. And then, beginning at the
Paradise end, came countless loads of crushed rock, in big
motor-trucks which tilted up backwards and slid out their
burden. There were machines to level this material, and great
steam-rollers to roll it flat—gee, it was wonderful to see what
Dad’s money could do!</p>

<p class="pindent">They had ordered the lumber for the bunk-house, and got
it in by small loads, and Paul was at work with half a dozen
men from the neighborhood. He had engaged them himself,
telephoning from Paradise; and if any of them felt humiliated
at working under a nineteen year old boss, Dad’s twenty-two
dollar check salved their feelings at twelve-thirty every Saturday.
Even old Mr. Watkins, Paul’s father, was impressed by
this sudden rise of his “black sheep,” and no longer said anything
about hell-fire and brimstone. It was on his ranch,
you understand, that all this activity was taking place; the
carpenters’ hammers were thumping all day, and up near the
head of the arroyo the artesian well was flowing, and a gang
of men and horses were leveling a road up to the drilling site.
It seemed to the Watkins family as if the whole county had
suddenly moved to their ranch. It meant high prices, right
on the spot, for everything good to eat they could raise. You
could not help being impressed by so much activity, even
though you knew it was the activity of Satan!</p>

<p class="pindent">Best of all was the effect upon Ruth, who fairly shone with
happiness over Paul’s success. Ruth kept house for Dad and
Bunny, besides what she did for Paul and herself; but it
seemed to agree with her, she filled out, and her cheeks grew
rosy. She had money to buy shoes and stockings and clean
dresses, and Bunny noticed all of a sudden that she was quite
a pretty girl. She shared Bunny’s idea that his father was a
great man, and she expressed her admiration by baking pies
and puddings for him, regardless of the fact that he was
trying to keep his weight down! The four of them had supper
together every evening, after the day’s work was done, in the
Rascum bungalow with the bougainvillea vine; and then they
sat out under the vine in the moonlight and talked about what
they had done, and what they were going to do, and the world
was certainly an interesting place to be alive in!</p>

<h3>IV</h3>

<p class="pindent">It was time for Bunny to go back to school; but first he
had to pay his semi-annual visit to his mother.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny had seen a notice in the paper, to the effect that
Mrs. Andrew Wotherspoon Lang was suing for divorce on
grounds of desertion. Now Mamma told him about it—her
second husband had basely left her, two years after their
marriage, and she had no idea where he was. She was a lonely
and very sad woman, with tears in her eyes; Bunny could have
no idea how hard it was, how every one tried to prey upon
defenseless women. Presently, through the tears, Bunny became
aware that his “pretty little Mamma” was tactfully hinting
something; she would have to have a new name when she got
the divorce, and she wanted to take back Dad’s name, and
Bunny wasn’t quite sure whether that meant that she was to
take Dad back along with his name. She asked how Dad was,
and mustn’t he be lonely, and did he have any women friends?
That bothered Bunny, who didn’t like to have people probing
into his father’s relations with women—he wasn’t sure himself,
and didn’t like to think about it. He said that Mamma would
have to write to Dad, because Dad wouldn’t let him, Bunny,
talk about these matters. So then some more tears ran down
the pretty cheeks, and Mamma said that everybody shut her
out, even her own daughter, Bertie, had refused to come and
stay with her this time, and what did that mean? Bunny
explained, as well as he could; his sister was selfish, he thought,
and wrapped up in her worldly career; she was a young lady
now, flying very high, with a fast set, and didn’t have time
for any of her family.</p>

<p class="pindent">But Bertie had found time recently for a talk with her
brother; telling him that he was old enough now to know about
their mother. Bertie had got the facts long ago from Aunt
Emma, and now she passed them on, and many mysteries were
solved for the boy, not merely about his mother, but about his
father. Dad had married after he was forty, being then the
keeper of a cross-roads store; he had married the village belle,
who thought she was making a great conquest. But very soon
she had got ideas beyond the village; she had tried to pry Dad
loose, and finally had run away and left him, with a prosperous
bond-salesman from Angel City, who had married her, but
then got tired and left her.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mamma’s leaving had done what all her arguments had
failed to do—it had pried Dad loose. He had thought it over
and realized—what everybody wanted was money, and he had
lost out because he hadn’t made enough; well, he’d show them.
And from that time Dad had shut his lips and set to work.
Some of his associates in the village had proposed to drill for
oil, and he had gone in with them, and they had made a success,
and pretty soon Dad had branched out for himself.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny thought that story over, and watched his father, and
pieced things together. Yes, he understood now—that grim
concentration, and watchfulness, and merciless driving; Dad
was punishing Mrs. Andrew Wotherspoon Lang, showing her
that he was just as good a man as any bond-salesman from the
city! And Dad’s distrust of women, his idea that they were
all trying to get your money away from you! And his centering
of all his hopes upon Bunny, who was going to be happy, and
to have all of his father’s virtues and none of his faults, and
provide that meaning and justification which Dad couldn’t find
in his own life! When Bunny thought of that, he would have
a sudden access of affection, and put his arm across Dad’s
shoulders, and say something about how his father was working
too hard, and how Bunny must hurry and grow up and carry
some of the load.</p>

<p class="pindent">He ventured very timidly to broach the matter of his
mother’s debts, and her plea that her income be increased; and
so he got his father’s point of view about his mother. There
was jist no use a-givin’ her money, Dad said; she was the type
that never lives upon an income, but always has debts and is
discontented. It wasn’t stinginess on Dad’s part, nor any wish
to punish her; she had money enough to live like she had
bargained to live when she married him, and that was his idea
of justice. She had had nothing to do with his later success,
and no claim upon its fruits. If she once found out that she
could get money from Bunny, she would jist make his life
miserable, and that was why Dad was so determined about it.
The tradesmen could sue his mother, but they couldn’t collect
anything, so in the end they’d learn not to give her credit,
and that would be the best thing for her. It was a painful
subject, but the time had come when Bunny must understand
it, and learn that women who tried to get your money away
from you would even go so far as to marry you!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny didn’t say so, but he thought Dad was a little too
pessimistic about one-half the human race. Bunny knew there
were women who weren’t like that, for he had found one—Rosie
Taintor, who had been his sweetheart now for a year
or more. Rosie always tried to keep him from spending money
on her, saying that she didn’t have any money, and it wasn’t
fair; she would ride in his car, but that was all. She was so
gentle and good—and Bunny was very unhappy about what
was happening to their love-affair. But his efforts to deny the
truth to himself had been futile—he was beginning to be bored
by it! They had looked at the eighteenth-century English
prints until they knew them by heart; and Rosie’s comment on
everything was still the same—“wonderful!” Bunny had gone
on to new things, and he wanted new comments, and could
not help wanting them, no matter how cruel it seemed. Therefore
he did not take Rosie driving so often, and once or twice
he took some other girl to a dance. And little Rosie was
gentle and demure as ever, she did not even cry, at least not
in his presence; Bunny was deeply touched, but like all male
creatures, he found it an immense convenience when old loves
consent to die painlessly, and without making a fuss! Without
realizing it, he got ready to fall in love with some new girl.</p>

<h3>V</h3>

<p class="pindent">The new road was done, and the bunk-house was done, and
occupied; Dad’s boss-carpenter had gone up there, and Paul
was working with him on the derrick. Then came the fleet
of motor-trucks, with the drilling tools, and they were rigging
up, and Paul was helping with that. Bunny was in school, and
missing all the fun, but Dad got a report almost every day from
his foreman, and passed it on to Bunny at supper-time. They
were behind in their race with Excelsior Pete, which had
already spudded in, having had the advantage of a road from
the start; but Dad said not to worry, it would be a long way
to the bottom of those wells.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny’s great hour came; it happened to be a Friday, and
he begged off from school—it wasn’t often that a boy had such
an excuse, that he had a “wild-cat” named after him, and had
to go to press a lever and start the drilling machinery! They
set out early in the morning, and arrived in mid-afternoon; and
rolling over that new road, hard and smooth and grey, how
proud they felt! They came to the Watkins arroyo, and the
new road leading into it—their own private road, so marked!
There was no one at the Watkins place, everyone had gone up
to the well; you could see a crowd gathered about the derrick—the
nice new shiny derrick of yellow pine, built on a little shelf,
half-way up the slope—the Ross Junior-Paradise Number One!</p>

<p class="pindent">They drove up, and the foreman welcomed them; everything
was ready, the last bolt tight, and full steam up—they
could have started a couple of hours ago. Bunny looked about;
there was Paul among the other workmen, keeping himself in
the background. And Ruth—she was with her family; Bunny
went up to them, he was glad to see them all, even old Mr.
Watkins, in spite of the jumping and the rolling and the rheumatix
and other troubles. The whole neighborhood was there,
and Bunny knew many of them by name, and spoke to them,
whether he knew them or not; they all liked this eager lad—the
young prince who had a well named after him. Some of
them in their secret hearts were “sore,” because they had sold
their land so cheap, and if they had held on, they too might
have become rich and famous; but nothing of that showed now,
this was a great hour, a ceremony about which they would talk
for many a day.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad looked things over, and asked a few questions, and
was about to say, “Go,” when he noticed another car coming
up the road. It was a big shiny limousine, and it rolled up
fast, and the crowd parted, and it stopped, and from it
descended—gee whiz, could you believe your eyes?—a young
man, tall and rather gawky, stoop-shouldered, sun-tanned, with
pale blue eyes and a mop of corn-colored hair; Eli Watkins,
Prophet of the Third Revelation, transfigured and glorified
in a stiff white collar and black tie and black broadcloth suit,
ill-fitting but expensive, and with a manner cut to the same
pattern, that peculiar blend of humble pride which the divine
profession generates. He was followed by an elderly rich
gentleman, who assisted from the car two ladies with costumes,
as you might say the feminine gender of Eli’s; they were some
of the prophet’s new converts, or those whom he had “healen.”
The neighbors stared respectfully, and for a minute or two
the well was forgotten, the spiritual power took precedence
over the temporal.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad came forward, and shook hands with the prophet; bye-gones
were to be bye-gones, and all disharmonies forgotten in
this great hour. Bunny was amazed by what happened, for he
had never known Dad to make a speech unless he was made to.
But there was a whimsical streak in J. Arnold Ross, which
bubbled up once in a while, and caused these queer turns of
events. Dad faced the crowd, and clearing his throat, said:
“Ladies and gentlemen, we are drilling this here well on the
ranch where Mr. Eli Watkins was born, so perhaps he would
like to say jist a few words to you on this occasion.” There
was a round of hand-clapping, and Eli colored, and was
obviously very much flattered; he took a step or two forwards,
and folded his hands in front of him in the fashion of a blessing,
and lifted his head, and half closed his eyes, and the booming
voice rolled out:</p>

<p class="pindent">“Brethren and sisters: Upon these hills have I tendened
my father’s herds, like the prophets of old, and have harkened
unto the voice of the Holy Spirit, speaking to me in the storms
and the thunders. Brethren and sisters, the Lord unfoldens
Himself in many ways, and gives precious gifts to His children.
The treasures of the yearth are His, and when in His Mercy
they are handened unto mankind, it is His Will that they be
used in His service and unto His Glory. The things of the
body are subjected unto the things of the spirit; and if in God’s
wisdom it should happen that this well should bring forth
treasure, may it be used in the service of the Most Highest,
and may His Blessings rest upon all they that own or labor
for it. Amen.”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a chorus from the audience, “Amen!” And so
there you were, a regular consecration! All the lies that Dad
had told to the Watkins family and to others, the bribes that
he had paid to Messrs. Carey and Coffey—all these were
abrogated, nullified, and remitted, and the Ross Junior-Paradise
No. 1 was from that time forth a sanctified well. And so Dad
turned and looked at Bunny, who was standing by the engine
with the lever in his hand. “All right, son!” And Bunny
moved the lever, and the engine gave a thump, and the chain
gave a pull, and the gears gave a rattle, and the rotary-table
gave a turn, and down underneath the derrick-floor you heard
that exciting sound which the oil men report as “Spud!”</p>

<h3>VI</h3>

<p class="pindent">At less than two hundred feet they struck the sands which
accounted for Bunny’s “earthquake oil;” there proved to be
two feet of them, and Dad said it would give them enough oil
to run their own car for a year! They were going deeper, still
with an eighteen-inch bit, through hard sandstone formation;
they were working in an open hole, with no casing, because the
ground was so firm. Paul was working as a general utility
man, mainly carpentry. “Dad, we’re going to make Paul our
manager some day,” Bunny had said; but Paul had smiled and
said that he was going to be a scientist, and he wouldn’t fool
himself with the idea that the jobs at the top were easy—he’d
not exchange his eight hour job for Dad’s eighteen hour
job. This was a subtle kind of flattery, and gave Dad a
tremendously high opinion of Paul!</p>

<p class="pindent">Thanksgiving Day was coming; and Bunny’s soul was
torn in half. It was a great occasion at the school, the annual
football battle with a rival institution known as “Polly High,”
located in Angel City. And what was Bunny, a real boy or
an oil gnome? He fought it out within himself, and announced
his decision, to the dismay of Rosie Taintor and of Aunt
Emma—he was going to Paradise with Dad! It was the quail
season, and Dad needed a change, the boy told his aunt; but
the sharp old lady said he could fool himself, but he couldn’t
fool her.</p>

<p class="pindent">They didn’t have to take any camping things now, for they
had their cabin on the Rascum place, with a telephone and
everything comfortable. There was an extension phone in the
bungalow, and all they had to do was to call up Ruth, and
there would be a jolly fire in the cabin, and a supper on the
table at the bungalow, with all kinds of home-made good things,
the eating of which would make it necessary for Dad to walk
miles and miles over the hills next day! First, of course, they
would stop at the well, and inspect things, and have a talk with
the foreman. There were traces of oil again, and Dad had told
them to take a core, and he asked Mr. Banning to come up
next day and study it with him.</p>

<p class="pindent">They came in sight of the derrick. The drill-stem was out
of the hole, they could see the mass of “stands” setting in
place. When they got nearer, they saw that the crew had a
cable down in the hole; and when Dave Murgins, the foreman,
saw them, he came out to the car, and it was plain that something
was wrong. “We’ve had an accident, Mr. Ross.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What’s the matter?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“There’s a man fell in the hole.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, my God!” cried Dad. “Who?” And Bunny’s heart
was in his throat, for of course his first thought was Paul.</p>

<p class="pindent">“A roughneck,” said the foreman. “Fellow by the name
of Joe Gundha. You don’t know him.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“How did that happen?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Nobody knows. We was changing the bit, and this fellow
went down into the cellar for some reason—he had no business
there that we know of. Nobody thought about him for a
while.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You sure he went down?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“We been fishing with a hook, and we got a bit of his
shirt.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny was white about the lips. “Oh, Dad, will he be
alive?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“How long has he been down?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“We’ve been fishing half an hour,” said Murgins.</p>

<p class="pindent">“And you haven’t heard a sound?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Not one.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well then, he’s drowned in the mud. How far down
is he?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“About fifty feet. The mud sinks that far when we take out
the drill-stem. He must have went down head first, or he’d
have been able to keep his head above the mud and make a
noise.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“My God! My God!” exclaimed Dad. “It makes me want
to quit this business! What can you do to help men that
won’t help themselves?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny had heard that cry a thousand times before. They
had a cover for the hole, and any man who went down into
the cellar was supposed to slip it into place. Of necessity the
dirt caved in about the edges, so that the top of the hole was
a kind of funnel, its edges slippery with mud, and in this case
with traces of oil; yet men would take chances, sliding around
on the edge of that yawning pit! What could you do for
them?</p>

<p class="pindent">“Has he got any family?” asked Dad.</p>

<p class="pindent">“He told Paul Watkins he’d got a wife and some children
in Oklahoma; he worked in the oil fields there.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad sat motionless, staring in front of him; and nobody
said a word. They knew he really was interested in his men,
taking care of them was a matter of personal pride to him.
Bunny had turned sort of sick inside; gee, what a shame—in
his well, of all places, his first one, that was to start off the
new field! It was all spoiled for him; he wouldn’t be able to
enjoy his oil if he got it!</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well,” said Dad, at last, “what are you doin’? Jigglin’
a hook up and down in there? You’ll never get him up that
way. You’ll have to put down a three-pronged grab.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I thought that would tear him so—” explained Dave
Murgins, hesitatingly.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I know,” said Dad; “but you’ve got it to do. It ain’t as
if he might have any life in him. Bend the prongs so they
fit the hole, and force them past the body. Go ahead and get
it over with, and let’s hope it’ll teach the rest of you something.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad got out of the car, and told Bunny to take their things
down to the Rascum place, and break the news to Ruth; she’d
be upset, especially if she knew the fellow. Bunny understood
that Dad didn’t want him around when that torn body came
out of the hole; and since he couldn’t do any good, he turned
the car in silence, and drove away. In his mind he saw the men
screwing the “grab” onto the drill-stem—a tool which was
built to go over obstacles that fell into the hole, and to catch
hold of them with sharp hooks. They might get Joe Gundha by
the legs and they might get him by the face—ugh, the less you
thought about a thing like that, the better for your enjoyment of
the oil-game!</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad came to the cabin after a couple of hours, and lay
down for a while to rest. They had got the body out, he said,
and had telephoned for the coroner; he would swear in several
of the men as a jury, and hear the testimony of others, and
look at the body, and then give a burial permit. Paul had
been to the dead man’s bunk and looked over his things, and
put them all into a box to be shipped to his wife; Dad had in
his pocket half a dozen letters that had been found among
the things, and because he didn’t want Bunny to think that
money came easy, or that life was all play, he gave him these
letters, and Bunny sat off in a corner and read them: pitiful
little messages, scrawled in a childish hand, telling how the
doctor said that Susie’s heart would be weak for a long time
after the flu, and the baby was getting two more teeth and was
awful cross, and Aunt Mary had just been in to see her, and
said that Willie was in Chicago and doing good; there were
cross-marks and circles that were kisses from mamma, and
from Susie and from the baby. One sentence there was to
cheer up Dad and Bunny: “I am glad you got such a good
boss.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Well, it made a melancholy Thanksgiving evening for them;
they ate a little of the feast which Ruth had prepared, but
without real enjoyment. They talked about accidents, and Dad
told of something which had happened in the first well he had
drilled—they were down only thirty feet, when a baby had
crawled down into the cellar and slid into the hole. It had
taken a couple of able-bodied men to hold the mother back,
while the rest of them tried to get the child out. They fished
for it with a big hook on the end of a rope, and got the hook
under the baby’s body and lifted it gently a few feet, but then
the body got wedged somehow, and they were helpless. The
child had hung there, not screaming, just making a low, moaning
sound all the time, “U-u-u-” like that, never stopping; they
could hear it plainly. They started twenty feet from the well
and dug a shaft, big enough for two men to work in, breaking
the ground with crow-bars, scraping it into buckets with big
hoes, and the men on top hauling the buckets out with ropes.
When they got below the baby, they ran in sideways, and got
the baby out all right. The hook had sunk into the flesh of
the thigh, but without breaking the skin; the bruise had healed,
and in a few days the child was all right.</p>

<p class="pindent">A strange thing was life! If Bunny had stayed home that
day, he’d have taken Rosie Taintor to the football game, and
at the moment when poor Joe Gundha had plunged to his doom,
Bunny would have been yelling his head off over a few yards
gained by his team. And now, in the evening, he’d have been
at a dance; yes, Bertie actually was at a dance, at the home of
one of her fashionable friends, or at some fancy hotel where
they were giving a party. Bunny could see, in his mind’s eye,
her gleaming shoulders and bosom, her dress of soft shimmering
stuff, her bright cheeks and vivid face; she would be sipping
champagne, or gliding about the room in the arms of Ashleigh
Mathews, the young fellow she was in love with just now.
Aunt Emma would be all dressed up, playing at a card-party;
and grandmother was painting a picture of a young lord, or
duke, or somebody, in short pants and silk stockings, kissing
the hand of his lady love!</p>

<p class="pindent">Yes, life was strange—and cruel. You lived in the little
narrow circle of your own consciousness, and, as people said,
what you didn’t know didn’t hurt you. Your Thanksgiving
dinner was spoiled, because one poor laborer had slid down
into a well which you happened to own; but dozens and perhaps
hundreds of men had been hurt in other wells all over the
country, and that didn’t trouble you a bit. For that matter,
think of all the men who were dying over there in Europe!
All the way from Flanders to Switzerland the armies were
hiding in trenches, bombarding each other day and night, and
thousands were being mangled just as horribly as by a grab
in the bottom of a well; but you hadn’t intended to let that
spoil your Thanksgiving dinner, not a bit! Those men didn’t
mean as much to you as the quail you were going to kill the
next day!</p>

<p class="pindent">Well, the coroner came, and they buried the body of Joe
Gundha, on a hill-top a little way back out of sight, and with
a wooden cross to mark the spot. It was a job for Mr.
Shrubbs, the preacher at Eli’s church; and Eli came along, and
old Mr. Watkins and his wife, and other old ladies and gentlemen
of the church who liked to go to funerals. It was curious—Dad
seemed glad to have them come and tell him what to do;
they knew, and he didn’t! Obviously, it didn’t really do the
poor devil any good to preach and pray over his mangled
corpse; but at least it was something, and there were people
who came and did it, and all you had to do was jist to stand
bare-headed in the sun for a while, and hand the preacher a ten-dollar
bill afterwards. Yes, that was the procedure—in death,
as in life; you wanted something done, and there was a person
whose business it was to do that thing, and you paid him. To
Bunny it seemed a natural phenomenon—and all the same,
whether it was Mr. Shrubbs, who prayed over your dead roughneck,
or the man at the filling station who supplied the gas and
oil and water and air for your car, or the public officials who
supplied the road over which you drove the car.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad had sent a telegram to Mrs. Gundha, telling her the
sad news, and adding that he was sending a check for a
hundred dollars to cover her immediate expenses. Now Dad
wrote a letter, explaining what they had done, and how they
were sending her dead husband’s things in a box by express.
Dad carried insurance to cover his liability for accidents, and
Mrs. Gundha would be paid by the insurance company; she
must present her claim to the industrial accident commission.
They would probably allow her five thousand dollars, and Dad
hoped she would invest the money in government bonds, and
not let anybody swindle her, with oil stocks or other get rich
quick schemes.</p>

<p class="pindent">So that was that; and Dad said they might jist as well go
quail-shooting, and forget what they couldn’t help. And Bunny
said all right; but in truth he didn’t enjoy the sport, because
in his mind somehow the quail had got themselves mixed up
with Joe Gundha and the soldiers in France, and he couldn’t
get any fun out of mangled bodies.</p>

<h3>VII</h3>

<p class="pindent">Christmas was coming; and Bunny had his program all laid
out. He was going to take Dad to the Christmas Day football
game, and next morning they would leave for Paradise, and
stay there until it was time to go back for the New Year’s Day
football game. The well was going fine; they were down
over two thousand feet, in soft shale, and having no trouble.
Then, a couple of weeks before Christmas, Bunny came home
from school, and Aunt Emma said, “Your father just phoned;
he’s got some news about Excelsior Peter.” That was a joke
they had in the family—“Excelsior Peter;” Aunt Emma had
guessed that “Pete” was a nick-name, and she would be real
lady-like and use the full name! So, of course, they teased
the life out of her.</p>

<p class="pindent">“What is it?” cried Bunny.</p>

<p class="pindent">“They’ve struck oil.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“At Paradise?” Bunny rushed to the phone, in great excitement.
Yes, Dad said, Dave Murgins had jist phoned down;
“Excelsior-Carter No. 1,” as the well was called, had been in
oil-sands for several days, and had managed to keep it secret.
Now they were cementing off, something you couldn’t hide.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny jumped into the car and rushed down to the office.
Everybody was excited; the afternoon papers had the news,
and some of Dad’s oil friends dropped in to talk about it.
It meant a new field, of course; there would be a rush to
Paradise. Dad was the lucky one—to think he had got twelve
thousand acres up there, owned them outright! How had it
happened? Dad said it wasn’t his doings; he had spent a
hundred thousand dollars jist to amuse his boy, to get him
interested in the business, and perhaps teach him a lesson. But
now, by golly, it looked as if the boy had done the teaching!
Mr. Bankside, who had got to be quite an oil man now, and
was drilling a well of his own, said that he always hoped his
sons would lose when they started gambling, so they’d not get
the habit; Dad said yes, but he’d risk Bunny’s soul this once,
there was too much money at stake!</p>

<p class="pindent">After that, of course, Bunny was on pins and needles to
get to Paradise; he wanted to quit school, but Dad said no.
Bunny decided he didn’t care about that old Christmas Day
football game; what did Dad think? To which Dad answered
that he’d managed to get along to the age of fifty-nine without
ever seeing a football game! So Bunny said he’d write and
tell Ruth, they’d run up on Christmas eve, starting after school,
and have dinner late, in regular society style. It would be hard
for Ruth to believe that fashionable people in the cities ate
their dinner at eight or nine o’clock at night!</p>

<p class="pindent">Meantime, the bit was grinding away in the well; they were
down to 2300 feet, and it was known that Excelsior-Carter No.
1 had struck the sands at 2437 feet. Bunny was so much
excited that he would run to the phone in between classes at
school, and call up his father’s secretary at the office, to ask
if there was any news. And so, three days before Christmas,
he got the magic word; Dad was on the phone, and said that
Bunny’s well was in oil-sands. It was too early yet to say
any more, they were taking a core, that was all. As soon as
he got free from class, Bunny went flying over to the office,
and there he listened to a conversation—Dad had put in a
long distance call, and was talking to the man from whom he
got his machinery. He was ordering a patent casing-head, the
biggest made, to be shipped to the well; it was to be put on a
truck and start tonight. And then Dad was talking to Murgins
again, telling him at what hour the casing-head was due, and
they must set to work and break out the drill-stem, and put that
casing-head on tight, with lugs on the side, and jist bury it with
cement, not less than fifty tons, Dad said; they were away off
from everything, out there at Paradise, and if they was to have
a blow-out, it would be the very devil.</p>

<p class="pindent">Well, they got their core, eight feet of it, and it was high
gravity oil—a fortune waiting for them, down underneath those
rocky hills, where the feet of goats and sheep had trod for so
many years! Dad ordered his “tankage,” and then he ordered
more. Then they learned that the casing-head had arrived; it
was screwed on, and the “lugs” were on, and when the cement
had set, all the gas under Mount Vesuvius couldn’t lift that
there load, said Dad. They started drilling again, and took
another core, and found the oil heavier yet. So finally Dad
gave way, and said it was too important, he guessed Bunny
would have to beg off a day in school. Dad gave orders to
“wash” the well, and he called up the cement-man, and arranged
for the big truck to set out for Paradise; Dad would meet them
there, and they would do the job the day before Christmas,
and if they got their shut-off, they’d celebrate with the biggest
turkey in that famous turkey-raising country. So, early the
next morning, Dad and Bunny chucked their suit-cases into the
car, and set out to break the speed records to Paradise. Three
hours later they stopped to telephone, and the foreman said
they were “washing;” also that the Excelsior Pete well had got
a water shut-off, and had drilled through the cement, and was
going down into the oil-sands, the final stage of making a well.</p>

<p class="pindent">They got to San Elido; and Dad said, “We’ll jist stop and
shake hands with Jake Coffey.” They drove up to the store,
and Bunny jumped out, and there was a clerk and he said,
“Jake’s gone up to Paradise to see the well. Have you heard
the news? Excelsior Pete has got a gusher, there’s oil all
over the place!” Bunny ran out and shouted to Dad, and
leaped into the car, and gosh-amighty, the way they did burn up
that road across the desert! Dad laughed, and said the speed-cops
would all be up at the well.</p>

<p class="pindent">They got to Paradise, and the town was deserted, not a
soul on the streets, and not a car, except those that were
hurrying through, like the Rosses. A burglar could have made
off with the whole place—but any burglar would have been
watching the gusher, along with the speed-cops! You had to
park your car a quarter of a mile away from the well, and you
could hear the gusher roaring like Niagara Falls! And then,
walking, you came round a turn in the road, and you could see
the valley, and everything in sight was black; there was a
high wind blowing, and it was a regular thunder cloud, a curtain
of black mist as far as you could see. The derrick was hidden
altogether—you had to make a detour, behind a little ridge,
and come over the top to windward, and there the crowds were
gathered, staring at the great black jet that came rushing up
out of the ground, a couple of hundred feet into the air, with
a sound like an endless express train going by. You could see
men working, or trying to work, under the derrick; you could
see a bunch of them with picks and shovels, throwing up a
sort of dam to hold the oil; they wouldn’t save much, Dad
said, it evaporated too fast.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad could watch this scene philosophically; it wasn’t his
“funeral.” If it had been one of the independents, like himself,
he’d have offered to help; but this was a dirty crowd, Excelsior
Pete, they didn’t think the little fellows had any business on
earth, there was nothing too mean for them to do. Of course,
it was a shame to see all that treasure going to waste; but you
couldn’t be sentimental when you were playing the oil-game.
What you had to watch out for was that the wind didn’t shift
suddenly and ruin your good suit of clothes!</p>

<h3>VIII</h3>

<p class="pindent">They watched for a while, and then they remembered they
had a well of their own, and drove back to Paradise, and
across the valley to the Watkins ranch. They had a long talk
with the foreman; Dad examined the core, and the report of
the chemist who had tested the oil; he saw that the “washing”
was going all right, they would be ready for the cementing off
in the morning. Everybody was on tiptoe; they were going
to do their job better than the “Excelsior Pete” crowd, and
not smear all the landscape with crude petroleum. The tankage
was at the railroad depot, and they inspected the foundations,
just completed for the tanks.</p>

<p class="pindent">Everything “hunkydory,” said Dad. They drove over to
the Rascum place and saw Ruth, and Bunny got on his hunting-clothes,
and got a few quail before sundown; and then they
had supper, and Paul told them all the gossip about the well,
also how much money Eli had collected for his temple. After
supper they went back to the well—they just couldn’t keep
away! It was a crisp cold evening, a new moon in the sky, a
big white star just over it—everything so beautiful, and
Bunny so happy, he owned a “wild-cat,” and it was “coming
in,” it was going to yield him a treasure that would make all the
old-time fairy-tales and Arabian Nights adventures seem
childish things. They were lifting the “water-string” now—a
process necessary to cementing off; the casing at the bottom
had to be raised, so that the cement could be forced under.
It was difficult, for the casing was wedged, and they had to
put down a tool known as a “jar,” which struck heavy blows
and shook the casing loose. Standing on the derrick platform,
Bunny listened to these blows, far down in the earth; and
then suddenly came a sound, the like of which had never
assailed his ears in all his life, a sound that was literally a blow
on the side of his head; it seemed as if the whole inside of the
earth suddenly blew out. That tremendous casing-head, with
its mass of cement, which Dad had said would hold down Mt.
Vesuvius, went suddenly up into the air; straight up, with the
big fourteen inch casing following it, right through the top
of the derrick, smashing the crown block and tackle as if these
had been made of sugar candy!</p>

<p class="pindent">Of course Bunny turned and ran for his life, everybody
scattered in every direction. Bunny looked once or twice as
he ran, and saw the casing-head and a long string of casing up
in the air, for all the world like a Dutchman’s pipe, only it was
straight. When this pipe-stem got too long, it broke off, and
crashed over sideways, taking part of the derrick with it; and
out of the hole there shot a geyser of water, and then oil, black
floods of it, with that familiar roaring sound—an express train
shooting out of the ground! Bunny gave a yell or two, and
he saw Dad waving his arms, and presumably calling; he started
toward his father—when suddenly, most dreadful thing of all,
the whole mass of oil up in the air burst into flame!</p>

<p class="pindent">They were never to know what did it; perhaps an electric
spark, or the fire in the boiler, or a spark made by falling
wreckage, or rocks blown out of the hole, striking on steel; anyhow,
there was a tower of flame, and the most amazing spectacle—the
burning oil would hit the ground, and bounce up, and
explode, and leap again and fall again, and great red masses
of flame would unfold, and burst, and yield black masses of
smoke, and these in turn red. Mountains of smoke rose to
the sky, and mountains of flame came seething down to the
earth; every jet that struck the ground turned into a volcano,
and rose again, higher than before; the whole mass, boiling and
bursting, became a river of fire, a lava flood that went streaming
down the valley, turning everything it touched into flame, then
swallowing it up and hiding the flames in a cloud of smoke.
The force of gravity took it down the valley, and the force of
the wind swept it over the hill-side; it touched the bunk-house,
and swallowed it in one gulp; it took the tool-house, everything
that was wood; and when there came a puff of wind, driving
the stream of oil and gas to one side, you saw the skeleton of
the derrick, draped with fire!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny saw his father, and ran to join him. Dad was rallying
the men; was anybody hurt? He got the crew together,
one by one; they were all there, thank God! He told Paul to
run down to the ranch-house and get his family up into the
hills; he told Bunny to go with him, and keep away from the
fire—a long way, you never could tell in which direction it
would explode. So Bunny went flying down the arroyo at
Paul’s heels; they found the family down on their knees, praying,
the two girls hysterical. They got them up, and told them
where to go; never mind their few belongings, cried Bunny,
Dad would pay for them. Paul shouted to see to the goats,
and they ran to the pen, but they weren’t needed; the panic-stricken
creatures flung themselves against the side of the pen
and broke through, and away they went down the arroyo; they
would take care of themselves!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny started back; and on the way, here came Dad in his
car. He was going after dynamite, he called to them; they
were to keep away from the fire meantime; and off he went
in the darkness. It was one time in his life that Bunny knew
his father to be caught without something he needed; he hadn’t
thought to carry any dynamite around with him on his drives!</p>

<p class="pindent">Of course Bunny had heard about oil fires, which are the
terror of the industry. He knew of the devices ordinarily used
to extinguish them. Water was of no use—quite the contrary,
the heat would dissolve the water into its constituents, and you
would merely be feeding oxygen to the flames. You must have
live steam in enormous quantities, and for that you needed
many boilers, and they had only one here, this fire would go
on burning all the while they were fetching more; Bunny had
heard of a fire that burned for ten days, until they made a
great conical hood of steel to slide over the well, with an
opening in the top through which the flames rushed out, and
into which was poured the live steam. And meantime all the
pressure would be wasted, and millions of dollars worth of
money burned up! Bunny realized that, as a desperate
alternative, Dad was going to try to plug up the hole by a
dynamite blast, even at the risk of ruining the well.</p>

<p class="pindent">The two boys skirted the slopes, and got back to the well,
on the windward side, away from the flames. There they found
the crew engaged in digging a shaft, as close to the fire as they
could get; Bunny understood that it was in preparation for the
dynamite. They had set up a barrier against the heat, a couple
of those steel troughs in which they mixed cement; upon this
they had a hose playing, the water turning to steam as it hit.
A man would run into the searing heat, and chop a few strokes
with a pick, or throw out a few shovelfuls of dirt, and then
he would flee, and another man would run in. Dave Murgins
was working the hose, lying flat on the ground with some wet
canvas over his head. Fortunately, they had pressure from the
artesian well, for their pump was out of commission, along with
everything else. Dave shouted his orders, and the hole got
deeper and deeper. Paul ran in to help, and Bunny wanted
to, but Dave shouted him back, and so he had to stand and
watch his “wild-cat” burning up, and all he could do was to
bake his face a little!</p>

<p class="pindent">They got down below the surface of the ground, and after
that it was easier; but the man who worked in that hole was
risking his life—suppose the wind were to shift, even for a
few seconds, and blow that mass of boiling oil over him! But
the wind held strong and steady, and the men jumped into the
hole and dug, and the dirt flew out in showers. Presently they
were tunneling in towards the well—they would go as close
as they dared, before they set the dynamite.</p>

<p class="pindent">And suddenly Bunny thought of his father, coming with
the stuff; he wouldn’t be able to drive up the road, he’d have
to come round by the rocky hill-side, carrying that dangerous
load in the darkness. Bunny went running, as fast as he dared,
to help.</p>

<p class="pindent">There were cars down on the road; many people had seen
the glare of the fire, and come to the scene. Bunny inquired
for his father; and at last there came a car with much tooting,
and there was Dad, and another man whom Bunny did not
know. They drove as far up as they dared—the Watkins
house had been long ago swallowed by the flames. They stopped
and got out, and Dad told Bunny to take the car back to a
safe place, and not come near him or the other man with the
dynamite; they would make their way to the well, very carefully.
Bunny heard Dad telling the other man to go slow, they’d not
risk their lives jist to save a few barrels of oil.</p>

<p class="pindent">When Bunny got back to the well again, Dad and the man
were already there, and the crew was setting the dynamite.
They had some kind of electric battery to explode it with, and
presently they were ready, and everybody stood back, and the
strange man pushed down a handle, and there was a roar and
a burst of flame from the shaft, and the geyser of oil that was
rushing out of the well was snubbed off in an instant—just as
if you stopped a garden hose by pinching it! The tower of oil
dropped; it leaped and exploded a few times more, and that was
the end. The river of fire was still flowing down the arroyo,
and would take a long time to burn itself out; but the main
part of the show was over.</p>

<p class="pindent">And nobody was hurt—that is, nobody but Bunny, who
stood by the edge of the red glare, gazing at the stump of his
beautiful oil-derrick, and the charred foundations of his home-made
bunk-house, and all the wreckage of his hopes. If the
boy had been a little younger, there would have been tears in
his eyes. Dad came up to him and saw his face, and guessed
the truth, and began to laugh. “What’s the matter, son? Don’t
you realize that you’ve got your oil?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Strange as it may seem, that idea came to Bunny for the
first time! He stared at his father, with such a startled expression
that the latter put his arm about the boy and gave
him a hug. “Cheer up, son! This here is nothin’, this is a
joke. You’re a millionaire ten times over.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Gosh!” said Bunny. “That’s really true, isn’t it!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“True?” echoed Dad. “Why, boy, we got an ocean of oil
down underneath here; and it’s all ours—not a soul can get near
it but us! Are you a-frettin’ about this measly little well?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But Dad, we worked so hard over it!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad laughed again. “Forget it, son! We’ll open it up
again, or drill a new one in a jiffy. This was jist a little
Christmas bonfire, to celebrate our bustin’ in among the big
fellers!”</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER VII<br /> <span class="sub-head">THE STRIKE</span></h1></div>

<h3>I</h3>

<p class="pindent">A year had passed, and you would hardly have known the
town of Paradise. The road was paved, all the way up from
the valley, and lined with placards big and little, oil lands for
sale or lease, and shacks and tents in which the selling and
leasing was done. Presently you saw derricks—one right alongside
Eli’s new church, and another by that holier of holies, the
First National Bank. Somebody would buy a lot and build a
house and move in, and the following week they would sell the
house, and the purchaser would move it away, and start an oil-derrick.
A great many never got any farther than the derrick—for
subdividers of real estate had made the discovery that all
the advertising in the world was not equal to the presence of one
such structure on the tract. You counted eleven as you drove
to the west side of the valley, where the Excelsior gusher had
spouted forth; and from the top of the ridge, you could count
fifty, belonging to a score of different companies. Going east,
there were a dozen more before you reached the Ross tract,
and now some one was prospecting on the far side of this tract,
along the slide to Roseville, where the Mineral Springs Hotel
was being built.</p>

<p class="pindent">The little Watkins arroyo was the site of a village. You
counted fourteen derricks here and there on the slopes, and big
tanks down below, and tool-houses and sheds, and an office.
Dad had built the new home of the Watkins family near the
entrance to the place; they had sold their goats, and they now
irrigated a tract and raised strawberries and garden truck and
chickens and eggs for the company mess. In addition to that,
they had a little stand by the roadside, and Mrs. Watkins and
the girls baked pies and cakes and other goodies, which disappeared
down the throats of oil workers with incredible rapidity,
assisted by “soft drinks” of vivid hues. But you couldn’t buy
any “smokes” at the stand, these being contrary to the Third
Revelation, and obtainable at the rival stand across the road.</p>

<p class="pindent">The new bunk-house stood a little way back, under the
shelter of some eucalyptus trees. It had six shower-baths,
which were generously patronized, but to Bunny’s great sorrow
you seldom saw anybody in the reading-room, despite the pretty
curtains which Ruth had made; the high-brow magazines were
rarely smudged by the fingers of oil workers. Bunny tried to
find out why, and Paul told him it was because the men had
to work too long hours; Paul himself, as a carpenter, had an
eight hour day, and found time for reading; but the oil workers
were on two shifts, twelve hours each, and they worked
every day in the year, both Sundays and holidays. When
you had put in that much time handling heavy tools, you
wanted nothing but to get your supper and lie down and
snore. This was a problem which Dad was too busy to solve
just now.</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul was boss-carpenter, having charge of all the building
operations; quite a responsibility for a fellow not quite of age.
So far they had completed forty shacks for the workers’
families, costing about six hundred dollars each, and renting for
thirty dollars a month, with water, gas and electric light free.
No one knew exactly what these latter services cost, so Bunny
could not determine whether the price was fair or not, and
neither could the oil workers; but Dad said they were glad to
get the houses, which was the business man’s way of determining
fairness.</p>

<p class="pindent">But there was one point upon which Bunny had interfered
with energy; he didn’t see why everything about the oil industry
had to be so ugly, and certainly something ought to be done
about these shacks. He asked Ruth about it, and they drove
to a nursery in San Elido, and without saying anything to Dad,
incurred a bill for a hundred young acacia trees, each in a tin
can, and two hundred climbing roses, each with its roots tied
up in a gunny sack. So now at every shack there was a young
tree with a stake beside it, and all along the road there were
frames made of gas pipe, with a rose vine getting ready to
climb. It was Ruth’s duty once a month to pull one of the
laborers off his job and make him soak the trees and the vines,
and next day cultivate them and dig away the grass and weeds.
For this service Ruth was compelled to receive a salary of ten
dollars a month, and bore the imposing title of “Superintendent
of Horticultural Operations.” Bunny would inspect the growing
plants, and sit in his reading-room, and persuade himself
that he had made a start as a social reformer, resolving the
disharmonies between capital and labor, about which he was
being taught in the “social ethics” class in school.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny was now almost eighteen, slender, but well built,
and something of a runner. He was brown as ever, and his
hair was still wavy, and his lips red and pretty like a girl’s;
he was merry on the surface, but serious underneath, trying
most conscientiously to prepare for the task of administering
some millions of dollars of capital, and directing the lives of
some thousands of workingmen. If the people who wrote
books about these matters, and taught them in school, had any
useful suggestions, Bunny wanted to get them; so he listened,
and read what he was told to read, and then he would come
home and ask Dad about it, and when he visited the field, he
would ask Paul. The teachers and the textbooks said there
was no real disharmony between capital and labor; both were
necessary to industry, they were partners, and must learn to
get along together. And Dad said that was all right, only,
like everything else, it was theory, and didn’t always work out.
Dad said that the workingmen were ignorant, and wanted
things the industry couldn’t afford to give; it was from this
the quarrels grew. But Dad didn’t know what to do about it,
and apparently wasn’t trying to find out; he was always too busy
getting some new tract developed; and Bunny couldn’t very
well complain—having got Dad into this latest pile of work!</p>

<p class="pindent">It seemed a shame, when you came to realize it. This ranch
had been a place where Dad could come to rest and shoot quail;
but now that they had struck oil, it was the last place in the
world where he could rest. There were new wells to be planned
and drilled, and pipe-lines to be run, and oil to be marketed,
and financing to be seen to, and houses and roads, and a gas-plant,
and more water—there was something new every day.
The books showed that nearly three million dollars had gone into
the place so far, and now Dad was talking about the absolute
necessity of having his own refinery; his mind was full of a
thousand technical details along this line. There was a group
of men—really big capitalists—who wanted to go in with him,
and turn this into one of the monster oil fields, with a company
capitalized at sixty million dollars; there would be a “tank-farm,”
and several distilleries, and a chain of distributing
stations. Should Dad follow this course, or should he save the
business for Bunny? The boy would have to decide pretty soon,
did he want to shoulder an enormous burden like this, or to
let other people carry it for him? Did he want to study all
kinds of things, like Paul, or did he want to buckle down to the
oil-game, and give his attention to the process of cracking distillation,
and the use of dephlegmators in connection with tower
stills?</p>

<h3>II</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny’s speculations upon the problem of capital and labor
were not destined to remain academic. Spending his Christmas
holidays at Paradise, he found Paul looking very serious, and
asking what would be Dad’s attitude towards the matter of
unions in this field. There was an organizer for the carpenters
here, and Paul had talked with him, and decided that it was
his duty to join. Some of the men had joined secretly, but
Paul wouldn’t have any concealment in his relations with Mr.
Ross. Bunny answered that his father didn’t think much of
unions, but he certainly wouldn’t object to Paul’s joining, if Paul
thought it was right; anyhow they’d talk it out. So that evening
they had a session, which wasn’t quite the same as a class at
high school.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad believed in organization; he always said that, and his
formula would apply to workingmen—at least in theory. But
in practice Dad had observed that a labor union enabled a lot
of officials to live off the work of the real workers; these
officials became a class by themselves, a sort of vested interest,
and they looked out for themselves, and not for labor. They
naturally had to make some excuse for their own existence, and
so were apt to stir up the workers to discontent which otherwise
the workers wouldn’t feel.</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul said that was one way to look at it; but as a matter
of fact, it was just as apt to work the other way—the men
would be discontented, and officials would be trying to smooth
them down. The officials made bargains with the employers,
and naturally wanted the workers to fall into line. Didn’t it
seem more reasonable to account for disputes in industry by the
fundamental fact that one group was selling labor, and the other
was buying it? Nobody was ever surprised that a man who
was buying a horse didn’t value it so high as the owner.</p>

<p class="pindent">You could see Dad didn’t like that, because it was a view
that made his business more difficult. He said that what
troubled him about unions was, they deprived a man of his
personal liberty; he was no longer a free American citizen,
he was jist a part of a machine, run by politicians, and often
by grafters. What had made this country great was individual
enterprise, and we ought to protect that. And Paul said yes,
but the employers had set the men a bad example; they had
joined a “Petroleum Employers’ Federation,” which ruled the
industry very strictly. Paul had been told that in his early
days Mr. Ross had paid his men a dollar a day more than the
regular scale, so as to get the best labor; but when he had got
into the Prospect Hill field, he had had to join the Federation,
and now wasn’t allowed to pay more than the regular scale.</p>

<p class="pindent">That was true, Dad admitted, but he hastened to explain, he
hadn’t reduced anybody’s wages; his business had grown so fast,
he had put his men into higher classifications, and when he
engaged new men for the old jobs, they had got the regular
price. But when Paul pinned him down, Dad admitted that
it really was a union he belonged to, and he had sacrificed his
personal liberty to that extent. It was clear enough, there had
to be some order among the employers, to keep them from
cutting one another’s throats; and Dad was fair enough to admit
that maybe if he were a laborer, he’d see the same necessity.</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul pleased Dad by saying that if all the employers were
as fair as Mr. Ross, it would be easy to deal with them; but
the fact was plain that many of them would respect only power,
and the workers had no power except as a group. Why was it
the carpenters were working only eight hours? Because they
were organized all over the country, you couldn’t get a lot of
good carpenters on any other terms. But the oil workers were
poorly organized, so here was this two-shift arrangement, an
inhuman thing, and the reason why Bunny couldn’t get the men
to make use of his reading-room. Paul said that with a smile,
to take the sting out of it; he knew it would hurt Bunny, and
that Dad wouldn’t feel comfortable over it, either. Dad couldn’t
give his oil workers an eight hour day, even if he wanted to—because
the Petroleum Employers’ Federation had taken away
his personal liberty and initiative in that respect. Paul added
that the Federation would have to face this issue very shortly,
because the oil workers were organizing—right in this Paradise
field, as Mr. Ross no doubt knew.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad said he had heard it; he went so far as to admit that
the Federation had sent him bulletins to keep him posted. But
he wasn’t worrying, he said; if his men wanted a union, he
guessed he’d find a way to get along with it—he had tried
to be fair all his life, and the men knew it, most of them. Paul
answered that Mr. Ross ought to understand the fundamental
fact, which was that the cost of everything had been going up,
ever since the war in Europe had begun; the price of oil was
going up also, but the Employers’ Federation held to the old
wage schedule, and that was not fair, and was making the
trouble. The employers who fought the unions were short-sighted,
for what they really did was to turn the men over to the
I. W. W. Dad looked startled at that, for the “wobblies,” as
they were called, had the reputation of being dangerous people,
almost Anarchists, who wanted to seize the wells and run them
for the workers; you heard terrible rumors of a thing called
“sabotage,” which meant that the men, if they didn’t get what
they considered a square deal, would punish the employers by
damaging the property, even setting fire to wells. Were
I. W. W. really in the field? Paul answered that it wouldn’t be
fair for him to report on the men, that would be making him a
spy; but as a matter of fact the wobblies were in every field, and
in every industry—you could never keep them out, and the only
thing to do was to keep their influence down by a policy of
fair play.</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul had been studying this question of capital and labor,
as he studied everything that came his way. He had been
reading books of which Bunny had never heard even the
names—they were not taught in the high school courses, because,
so Paul declared, they gave the labor side. Paul had
been talking to an organizer who was here for the Oil Workers’
Union, an especially intelligent man, who had been working in
oil fields for several years, and knew conditions thoroughly.
Bunny was tremendously interested at that, and said he’d like
to meet the man, and wouldn’t Dad like to? Dad made the
answer he always made now-a-days, he was jist too crowded
with business over the new pipe-line, and the problem of a
refinery, but later on, perhaps, he might be interested. Dad
was always fooling himself that way; there was going to be
some time in the future when he would be free!</p>

<p class="pindent">However, he hadn’t any objection to Bunny’s meeting all
the union organizers he pleased; he’d no doubt have to bargain
with a lot of them during his life. Paul said that Tom Axton
was supposed to be here secretly, but as a matter of fact the
bosses all knew him, he had been kicked off the Excelsior Pete
property only yesterday. He’d no doubt be willing to talk with
Bunny, provided it was made clear that this wouldn’t affect his
right to organize the men in Mr. Ross’ employ.</p>

<p class="pindent">The upshot of it was that Axton was invited to meet Bunny
one morning in the reading-room; and that was the biggest sensation
this Watkins tract had known since the discovery well
had busted loose and caught fire. The men of the night-shift
forgot to go to sleep; they waited round to see the sight,
and you saw faces pass by doors and windows—and always
turned inwards as they passed! The union organizer was
supposed to be a mysterious and terrible person, who came onto
the tract at night, and met you and your friends somewhere
out in the hills; but here he was, being publicly entertained by
the Old Man’s son! Great kid, that Bunny Ross, said the
men—agreeing with Dad on this point!</p>

<p class="pindent">Tom Axton was a big fellow, slow spoken, soft of voice,
with a trace of Southern accent; he looked powerful, and had
need to be, considering the treatment he got. Of course, he
couldn’t swear that it was the Employers’ Federation which
sent thugs to beat him up and try to cripple him; but when the
same thing happened to him in several different fields in
Southern California, and didn’t happen to anybody else, he
naturally drew his own conclusions. Bunny was aghast at
this; he had never heard anything like it, and didn’t know what
to answer—except that he hoped Mr. Axton knew that his
father didn’t have anything to do with such dirty work. The
organizer smiled; he had evidently had a talk with Paul, for
he said, “Your father thinks that labor unions are run by
grafters and parasites. Well, I wish you’d ask him how much
he really knows about the Employers’ Federation, and the kind
of men who run it, and what they’re doing to us. You may
find that your father has been neglecting the affairs of his union,
just as most of the workers neglect theirs.” Bunny had to
admit that was a fair point, and when he asked Dad, and found
that Dad had never attended a meeting of the Federation, but
merely paid its assessments without question—why naturally,
that made Bunny have more respect for Tom Axton, and
believe what he said about conditions here in Paradise, and in
the other fields, and how rapidly discontent was spreading
among the men.</p>

<p class="pindent">Only yesterday the Victor Oil Company had fired fourteen
who had signed up with the union; the bosses had a spy among
them, and had waited to give everybody a chance to hang
himself! “You’re surely going to have a strike before long,”
said the organizer. “It will be a strike for the three-shift day,
among other things; and when it comes, your father will have
to consider whether to deal separately with his own men, or
to stand by his employers’ union, and let a bunch of big business
rowdies drag him into trouble.” You can imagine how much
that gave Bunny to think about, and how many discussions he
had with his father, and with Paul, and with the teacher of
the class in “social ethics” at the Beach City High School!</p>

<h3>III</h3>

<p class="pindent">The Allies, having control of the sea, were engaged in
starving out Germany; and the Germans were replying with the
only weapon they had, the submarine. The United States
had forced the German government to agree not to torpedo
passenger vessels without warning; but now, early in the winter
of 1917, the Germans gave notice that they would no longer
follow this policy, and everybody was saying that America
would have to go into the war. The German ambassador at
Washington was sent home, and after that the spirit of
neutrality was no longer dominant in the “current events”
classes at school.</p>

<p class="pindent">To the oil operators it seemed most unpatriotic on the part
of workers, to demand the eight hour day and an increase of
wages at this crisis. What?—when the country was about to
defend itself, and would need oil as never before in history!
But the workers replied that the employers did not make
concessions because they wanted to, but because they had to, and
this might be the only time they would have to. It was not
necessary to assume that the employers were giving the oil
away; they were getting a fancy price for it, and would get the
same price, or better, if the country went to war. The workers
claimed a share, proportioned to the price of everything they
had to buy. They were holding meetings all over the field,
and in the latter part of February their union officials wrote
to the various companies, asking for a conference. When this
request was ignored, they served notice on the employers that
there would be a strike.</p>

<p class="pindent">Three men came to see Dad; one of them an old employee,
the others new men. All three were young in years—indeed
you almost never saw an oil worker over thirty-five, and they
were all white Americans. This committee held their hats in
their hands, and were somewhat pale, embarrassed but determined.
They all liked Mr. Ross, and said so; he was “square,”
and he must know that their demands were reasonable.
Wouldn’t he set the example to the other employers, granting
the new schedule, so that his work could go on without interruption?
The strike, if it came, would be bound to spread,
and the cost of oil would go up at once; Mr. Ross would gain
far more than he would have to pay to the men. But Dad
answered that he had joined the Federation, and agreed to
stand by its decisions; what would become of his reputation for
“squareness,” if he were to go back on his associates in a crisis?
What he would do was to work within the Federation for an
agreement with the men; he would drop everything else, and
go down to Angel City and see what he could accomplish. He
thought the eight hour day was fair, and he would favor a
wage-scale adjusted to the cost of living, so that the men’s
income would not be subject to fluctuations. The committee
was cheered by these promises, and there was hand-shaking
all around.</p>

<p class="pindent">Left to himself, you understand that J. Arnold Ross would
probably never have taken this advanced position. His mind
was on his money—or on the things he wanted to do, and that
his money enabled him to do; he would probably have gone
with his crowd, as he had done hitherto. But there was Bunny,
a “little idealist”; Bunny liked the men, and the men liked him,
and Dad was proud of that mutual liking, and could be sentimental
for Bunny, where he would never have dreamed of
being for himself. Furthermore, there was Paul, who knew
the men’s side at first hand; and Bunny persisted in bringing
Paul into their life, in plying Paul with questions, and making
him say, right out, the things he might not otherwise have felt
free to say. So Paul had become a force in Dad’s consciousness;
and so Dad promised to try to help the men.</p>

<p class="pindent">He attended for the first time a meeting of his own trade
union. It was at night, and lasted till one o’clock in the morning;
and the next day being Saturday, Bunny came up to town
and met his father at the hotel, and heard the story of what
had happened. Most of the oil employers, it appeared, were
exactly like J. Arnold Ross, in that they left the running of their
union to others; there had been not more than forty men at
this critical meeting, and the dominant group consisted of
representatives of the “Big Five.” The chairman, and obviously
the man who ran the organization, was an attorney for Excelsior
Pete, who owned a small well, presumably to give him standing.
He had a group which took the cue from him and voted with
him. It had been rather a steam-roller affair, said Dad.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny wanted all the particulars, and plied his father with
questions. Dad had pleaded the men’s side, as tactfully as he
could, and had found exactly two operators in the gathering
who were willing to agree, ever so timidly, with his point of
view. To the ruling group he had seemed something of a renegade,
and they had hinted as much. “You know how it is, son,”
Dad explained, “this is an ‘open shop’ town; that’s the way the
crowd feels, and you might jist as well butt your head against a
stone wall as argue with them about unions. There’s everything
to be said for them—they’ve had trouble with organized labor,
and it’s made them bitter. They say”—and Dad went on to detail
the arguments that had been hurled at him; unions meant
graft, unions meant “hold-ups,” unions meant disorder, unions
meant strikes, unions meant Socialism.</p>

<p class="pindent">“What are they going to do, Dad?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“They’re jist not a-goin’ to let the men have a union—that’s
all. I said, ‘It looks as if the Federation has turned into
a strike-breaking organization.’ And Fred Naumann—that’s
the chairman—snapped back at me, ‘You said it!’ They’ll be a
strike-breaking organization, if and when and so long as there’s
strikes in their field—that’s the way Raymond put it, the vice-president
of Victor. And then Ben Skutt put in an oar—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Ben <span class="it">Skutt</span>?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, he was there; it seems he’s been doing some ‘investigation
work’ for the Federation—a polite name for spyin’.
He knew jist exactly what I’d said to our men the day before;
and he wondered if I realized the unfortunate effect of my
attitude—it amounted to givin’ the strikers moral support. I
told Ben that I usually took the liberty of saying what I
thought; I was taking it in this meeting, and I’d take it in the
newspapers if they asked me. Naumann smiled sarcastically:
‘I really don’t think they’re going to ask you, Mr. Ross.’ ”</p>

<p class="pindent">And sure enough, they didn’t—either then, or later! The
meeting was supposed to be secret—which meant that individual
members were not allowed to be quoted, but the chairman or
somebody gave to the press an official story, telling how the
meeting had voted to stand firm against the threats of the union.
It was a time for all lovers of America to uphold the country’s
welfare against enemies without and within—so ran the statement
in both the morning newspapers.</p>

<p class="pindent">“What are you going to do?” asked Bunny.</p>

<p class="pindent">“What can I do, son?” Dad’s face was grey, and deeply
lined; he was not used to staying up so late, Bunny knew, and
he had probably lain awake until morning, worrying over this
situation.</p>

<p class="pindent">And yet Bunny could not help making it harder for him.
“Are we going to let those fellows run our business, Dad?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It looks as if we’d have to, son. I’m in no position
financially to buck the game.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But with all the oil you’ve got!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’ve got a good deal of oil, but it’s mostly in the ground,
and what I’d need for this job would be a couple of million
dollars in the bank.”</p>

<p class="pindent">He went on to explain how modern affairs were conducted.
A man never had enough money, no matter how much he had;
he was always reaching out, doing business with the future,
so to speak. He put money into the bank, and that gave him
the right to take out more than he had put in; the bank would
take his “paper,” as it was called. Here Dad was drilling a
lot of new wells, he was buying machinery and materials, and
paying for labor in advance—all on the certainty of the oil he
was going to get next month and the month after; he knew
he was going to get it, and the banks trusted him, on the basis
of his reputation, and the known value of his property. But
if Dad were to set out to fight the Federation, he might jist
as well forget there was such a thing as a bank in the State
of California; he’d have to pay cash for everything, he’d have
to stop all his development work, and even then, he mightn’t
be able to meet his notes when they fell due.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny was appalled; for he had thought of his father as one
of the richest men in the state, and one of the most independent.
“Why, Dad, we don’t own our own business! We don’t even
own our souls!”</p>

<p class="pindent">That started the other on one of his stock themes. Business
was business, and not the same as a tea-party. Property was
hard to get, and, as he had told his son many times, there
was always people trying to take it away from you. If there
was going to be any security for wealth, there had to be discipline,
and men of wealth had to stand together. It might seem
harsh, if you didn’t understand, but it was the way of life.
Look at that war over there in Europe; it was a horrible thing—jist
made you sick to think about it; but there it was, and if
you was in it, you was in, and you had to fight. It was exactly
the same with the business game; there was no safety for you,
unless you stood with the group that had power. If you
stepped out of the reservation, the wolves would tear you to
pieces in short order.</p>

<p class="pindent">But Bunny was not satisfied with general principles; he
wanted the details of this situation. “Please tell me, Dad, just
who are these men we have to work with?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad answered: they were a group, it was hard to define
them, you might say the “open shop crowd;” they were the big
business men who ran Angel City, and the territory which lived
upon the city, or supported the city, according as you looked
at it. They had several organizations, not merely the Petroleum
Employers’ Federation, but the Merchants’ and Manufacturers’
Association, the Chamber of Commerce, the Bankers’ Club.
They were interlocked, and a little group ran them all—Fred
Naumann could call a dozen men on the telephone, and turn
you into an outcast from business society; no bank would lend
you a dollar, and none of the leading merchants would give
you credit, some would refuse to do business with you even
for cash.</p>

<p class="pindent">To the hour of his death, the elder Ross never really understood
this strange son of his. He was always being surprised
by the intensity with which Bunny took things, which to the
father were part of the nature of life. The father kept two
compartments in his mind, one for things that were right, and
the other for things that existed, and which you had to allow
to exist, and to defend, in a queer, half-hearted, but stubborn
way. But here was this new phenomenon, a boy’s mind which
was all one compartment; things ought to be right, and if they
were not right, you ought to <span class="it">make</span> them right, or else what was
the use of having any right—you were only fooling yourself
about it.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Listen, Dad,” the boy pleaded; “isn’t there some way we
could break that combination? Couldn’t you stop your new
developments, and put everything on a cash basis, and go slow?
You know, that might be better, in a way; you’re trying to do
too much, and you need a rest badly.”</p>

<p class="pindent">The other could not help smiling, in spite of the pain he
read in Bunny’s face. “Son,” he answered, “if I set out to
buck that game, I’d never have another hour’s rest, till you
buried me up there on the hill beside Joe Gundha.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But you’ve got the oil, and if you settle with the men, it will
go on flowing. It will be the only oil from this whole district!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, son, but oil ain’t cash; it has got to be sold.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You mean they wouldn’t take it from you?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I can’t say, son; I’ve never known such a case, and I
don’t know jist what they’d do. All I say is this—they
wouldn’t let me lose their strike for them! They’d find some
way to get me, jist as sure as tomorrow’s sunrise!”</p>

<h3>IV</h3>

<p class="pindent">Dad went back to the field and got the representatives of
his men together. He did not tell them the whole story, of
course, but said that he had tried his best to bring the employers
to his views, and had failed. He was bound by agreements
that he could not break, but he would be very glad to meet
the men’s terms if the Federation would do so. If there was
a strike, he would make no attempt to work his properties for
the present. It would mean heavy losses to him, the shutting
down of his best paying wells, but he would try to stick it out,
and his men might consider they were taking a vacation, and
come back to him when the strike was over. Meantime, he
would not turn them out, they might continue to occupy the
bunk-house, provided they would keep order, and not injure the
property. That was, of course, a very unusual concession, and
he hoped the men would appreciate it. The committee answered
that the men undoubtedly would do so; they were deeply grateful
to Mr. Ross for his attitude. The members of the committee
were embarrassed, and very respectful; you see, it is hard for
humble workingmen to confront their employer, a “big” man,
and armed with the magic power of money.</p>

<p class="pindent">The strike was called for noon on Wednesday, and the men
all marched out singing songs. Not more than ten percent had
joined the union, but they quit to a man—the few who might
have liked to stay were not enough to work the wells, anyhow.
They shut off the flow, and left everything in good order, and
marched in to Paradise, where they held a mass-meeting. There
were nearly three thousand workers in this field, and they all
came, and most of the townspeople, and a number of the
ranchers; the sympathy of the community appeared to be all
with the workers.</p>

<p class="pindent">Tom Axton made a speech, in which he set forth the
grievances of the men, and told them, out of his previous
experience, how a strike must be conducted. One thing above
all others, they must keep public sympathy with them, by obeying
the law and avoiding every suggestion of disorder; this would
not be easy, because the Employers’ Federation knew this, as
well as the strike leaders, and would do everything possible to
provoke the men to violence; that was the purpose for which
the “guards” were coming, the strikers’ difficulty would be
to keep out of the way. That was generally the case in strikes,
if you could believe Axton; he said that the guards were men
of a low type, hired by the big detective agencies out of the
city’s underworld, and supplied with a gun on their hip-pocket.
Whether the whiskey-bottle on the other hip-pocket was
supplied by the employers, or got by the men themselves, was
something Tom Axton did not know. Anyhow, they were
brought here by the truck-load, and on the way they stopped at
the sheriff’s office in San Elido—kept open day and night for the
purpose—and were sworn in wholesale as “deputy-sheriffs,”
and supplied with a silver shield to wear on their coat-lapels,
and after that, anything they did was according to law. A few
of these deputies were standing about, listening to Axton’s
speech, and needless to say, they did not appreciate it.</p>

<p class="pindent">The president of the union, who had come to the field to
conduct the strike, also made a speech; and the secretary of
the union, and the organizer of the carpenter’s union—there
could not be too many speeches, for the men were full of
enthusiasm, and their minds were open to ideas; it was an
education in the meaning of solidarity. They signed up by
hundreds, and paid their assessments out of their scanty savings.
Committees were appointed, and these got down to work in
an old barn which had been hired for headquarters, the only
vacant place of any size to be found in the midst of this oil
boom. The place was crowded with men, coming and going,
and there was not a little confusion, officials and volunteer
helpers working as if such things as rest and sleep were unknown
to the human organism. There were temporary lodgings
to be found—for not many oil operators were being so generous
as to provide shelter for strikers! The union had ordered a
lot of tents, and would need more yet, when leases expired
on shacks which had been rented on company property. Fortunately,
not many of the men had families in this field; your
oil worker is a migratory bird—he moves to a new field, and
has to work quite a while before he gets enough money to bring
his wife and children from the last field.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny drove up on Saturday morning; by which time the
first flush of excitement had passed. It was a rainy day, and
the men had no meeting place, and you saw bunches of them
crowded into doorways, or under awnings, wherever there was
free shelter; they looked rather melancholy, as if they found
being on strike less romantic than they had expected. In front
of the oil properties, especially those of the big companies, you
saw men pacing up and down, wearing rubber coats and hats,
from under which they eyed you suspiciously; some of them
carried rifles on their shoulders, like military sentries. Bunny
drove up to his father’s tract, and there he saw the same sight,
and it cut him to the heart—the very personification of that
hatred which so pained him in the industrial world, and which
he had fondly dreamed he might exclude from the “Ross
Junior” field. But the truth was, the “junior” aspects of the
business were fading temporarily; the “senior” aspects were in
control, and giving the impress to events.</p>

<p class="pindent">Sitting in the office on the tract, Bunny pinned his father
down on the matter of guards; did they really have to have
guards against their own men?</p>

<p class="pindent">“But surely, son,” protested Dad, “you can’t be serious!
Leave three million dollars worth of property unprotected?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Where did we hire these guards, Dad?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“We didn’t hire them, son; the Federation is handling that.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But couldn’t we have got guards of our own?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I don’t know any guards, or where to get them. I’d have
had to go to some agency, jist the same.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“And we couldn’t have used our own men, that we know?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Turn strikers into guards? Why, son, you must know
that wouldn’t do!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Why not?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, for one thing, the insurance companies—imagine how
quick they’d jump to cancel my fire insurance! And then,
suppose I was to have a fire, I’d be ruined. Don’t you see
that?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Yes, Bunny saw; it appeared as if the whole world was
one elaborate system, opposed to justice and kindness, and set
to making cruelty and pain. And he and his father were part
of that system, and must help to maintain it in spite of themselves!</p>

<p class="pindent">“Do we pay for these guards, Dad?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“We’re assessed for it, of course.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Then what it comes to, is this: we have to put up the
money for Fred Naumann to break the strike; and even though
we may not want the strike broken!” To this Dad remarked,
it was devilish inconvenient to have all those paying wells shut
off all of a sudden. He turned to some papers on his desk,
and Bunny sat in silence for a while, thinking his father’s
thoughts. They were elemental thoughts, not requiring any
subtlety to interpret. There were eleven producing wells on
the tract, which on last Thursday morning had been flowing at a
total rate of thirty-seven thousand barrels of oil per day. That
meant, at present boom prices, a gross income of close to two
million dollars a month. Dad’s mind had been full of all the
things he was going to do with that money; and now his mind
was full of problems of how to get along without it. His face
was still grey and lined with care, and Bunny’s heart smote him.
He, Bunny, wanted the men to win; but did he want it at the
cost of having his father carry this extra burden?</p>

<h3>V</h3>

<p class="pindent">Paul had gone with the strikers, so Bunny learned. Mr.
Ross had offered to keep him on, for there was some building
that needed to be done, and the carpenters were not on strike.
But Paul had thought it over and decided that his duty lay
with the oil workers; they hadn’t many educated men among
them—that was one of the burdens the twelve hour day put
upon them; so Mr. Ross would have to accept Paul’s resignation,
permanently or temporarily, as he might think best. Dad
had said there would be no hard feelings, and Paul might come
back when the strike was over.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny went up to the Rascum place to see Ruth and ask
her about it. The “Superintendent of Horticultural Operations”
had gone on strike with the boss-carpenter, but they were still
occupying the bungalow, and Ruth did the work for Dad,
whenever he occupied the cabin. Ruth said that Paul couldn’t
get out here any more, he was sleeping on some sacks of straw
in the union headquarters, where he worked about twenty hours
a day. So Meelie was staying with her sister, and they spent
all their spare time baking things, and old Mr. Watkins came,
with the same old horse hitched to the same old wagon, and
carried the things to Paradise, where they were sold to the
strikers. They had closed up their stand at the Watkins tract,
because there wasn’t nobody there but guards, and they wouldn’t
feed no guards, not if they starved. So spoke Meelie, who
was a little chatterbox; and Ruth looked at Bunny with some
embarrassment, thinking that wasn’t proper talk before him.
But Bunny said he wasn’t strong for guards himself, it had
made him sort of sick to see them on the place that was supposed
to be his. And Meelie said the man that was in charge at their
place wasn’t a bad fellow, he had been a forester and fire-guard;
but some of them others was awful mean, and Pap was
a-scairt for the girls to go on the road at night, they cussed
something fierce, and they had liquor all the time.</p>

<p class="pindent">There was an alluring odor of hot gingerbread in the
kitchen, and Bunny had not yet had his lunch; so the girls
set the little table, and the three sat down, and had a meal of
scrambled eggs and potatoes, and bread and butter, and goat’s
milk and gingerbread and strawberries—for the plants which
Paul had set out had been diligently tended by Ruth, who
couldn’t bear to let living things suffer, even green ones. Ruth
was now a young lady of almost eighteen, the same age as
Bunny, but she felt a lot older, as girls do. Her fair hair was
done up on the top of her head, and you saw her bare legs
no longer. She always looked nice working in the kitchen,
because then her cheeks were rosy; she was competent in her
own domain, and told you to sit down and not mess things
up trying to help. She had the bright blue eyes of all the
Watkins family; in her case they went with a candid, quiet
gaze that seemed to go to the depths of you, and make both
deception and unkindness impossible.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny at this time was just beginning an intense experience
back at home—his first serious love-affair, about which we
shall be told before long. Eunice Hoyt was a rich girl, and
complicated; to know her was sometimes pleasure and sometimes
torment. But Ruth was a poor girl, and simple; her
presence was soothing, calm and still like a Sabbath morning.
The basis of Ruth’s life was the conviction that her brother
Paul was a great and good man. Now Paul had given up
his ten dollar a day job to help the strikers, and Ruth was
baking food for the strikers, and while they had money she
would sell it to them, and when they had no more money she
would give it to them.</p>

<p class="pindent">Meelie, likewise, was delighted to bake for the men, but that
was not her only interest in them. The coming of oil to the
Watkins tract had meant vast changes in Meelie’s life, she was
no longer to be recognized as a goat-herd, but had blossomed
out, acquiring sophistication and conversation, and a bright
colored ribbon in her hair and a necklace of yellow beads about
her neck. Meelie had been to town the evening before, and it
had been so exciting! Eli was a full-fledged preacher now,
with a church of his own, and was holding services every
evening for the glory of the Lord, and great numbers of the
strikers had come, and grace had been abounding; and in
between the pentecostal manifestations, Meelie had picked up
news of the strike—there had been a fight on Main Street
because a drunken guard had been rude to Mamie Parsons;
and Paul had been one of a committee to see the sheriff and
demand that he take either the liquor or the guns away from
his deputies; and tomorrow Meelie was going to church again—there
would be three services all through the day; and it was
said that on Monday the operators were going to bring in
strike-breakers, and start the wells flowing on Excelsior Pete;
and the men were getting ready to stop that if they could—it
would be terrible!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny drove to town and wandered about to see the sights,
but none of them brought happiness to him. He could not see
Paul, for Paul was hard at work in the strike headquarters, and
Bunny could not go there, because it would not look right, somebody
might think he was spying. No longer was Bunny the
young oil prince, flattered and admired by all; he was an
enemy, and read hostility in men’s glances, even where there
might be none. He was in the position of a soldier in an army,
who feels that his cause is unjust, and has no stomach for the
fight—yet it is hard to wish one’s self defeat!</p>

<p class="pindent">On Sunday morning the sun was shining, and never had
Bunny seen such crowds in Paradise. Eli was holding a service
in the grove alongside his new “tabernacle,” and was telling
the strikers that if only they would have faith in the Holy
Spirit, they need not worry about their wages, there was the
miracle of the loaves and fishes, and was not their Heavenly
Father able to feed them if they would trust him? Some
believed this, and shouted “Amen”; others jeered, and went off
to the playground at the school-house, where the union was
holding a meeting for those who believed that wages were
necessary. Bunny went there, and heard Paul make his first
speech. It was a great sensation to Bunny, and in fact, to
the whole town; a picturesque situation, you must admit—the
two Watkins boys, the rival prodigies of the neighborhood,
making speeches at the same time, and preaching somewhat
opposite doctrines!</p>

<p class="pindent">It must be said on behalf of Eli that he did not deliberately
oppose the strike, and probably never clearly understood how
his doctrine was likely to aid the Employers’ Federation. His
sisters were baking bread for the strikers, working hard with
their physical hands kneading physical dough—and all the while
Eli was proclaiming that he could make magical miraculous
bread, whole baskets of it, by the agency of prayer. Why
didn’t he do it, jeered the skeptics; and Eli answered that it
was because of their lack of faith. But they said it was up
to him to begin; and the production of one single loaf of bread
by the Bible method would multiply faith a million-fold, and
bring the whole organized labor movement into the Church
of the Third Revelation!</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul had a deep, mature voice, and a slow, impressive way
of speaking. He was a good orator, for the very reason that
he knew none of the tricks, but was entirely wrapped up in
what he had to say. There was a struggle impending over the
issue of the re-opening of the wells, and Paul had been consulting
lawyers, and told the strikers exactly what they had a right
to do, and what they must refrain from doing. They would
maintain their legal rights, but not weaken their case by committing
the least breach of the law, and giving their enemies
a chance to put them in the wrong. Their whole future was
at stake, and the future of their wives and children; if they
could win the three-shift day, they would have leisure to study
and think, and raise their own status, and keep their children
longer in school. That was the real issue in this strike, and if
democracy did not mean that, it had no meaning, and talk about
patriotism was buncombe. The vast throng cheered Paul, and
Bunny could hardly keep from cheering also, and went away
feeling cheap, and utterly out of harmony with life. He had
time to think it over on the long drive back to Beach City by
himself; he did not get in until midnight, and all the way he
heard Paul’s voice above the hum of the engine, challenging
everything that Bunny thought he believed!</p>

<h3>VI</h3>

<p class="pindent">Back in school, Bunny had to get his news about the strike
from the papers, and these did not give him much comfort.
The papers thought the strike was a crime against the country
in this crisis, and they punished the strikers, not merely by
denouncing them in long editorials, but by printing lurid accounts
of the strikers’ bad behavior. On Tuesday morning you
read how several truck-loads of oil workers—the despatches
did not call them strike-breakers—had been brought into
the Excelsior Petroleum Company’s tract, and how, at the
entrances, they were met by howling mobs, which cursed them,
and called them vile names, and even threw bricks at them.
The Employers’ Federation issued a statement denouncing this
rule of a peaceful community by riot, and the statement was
published in full.</p>

<p class="pindent">Next day it was the turn of the Victor Oil Company, which
concern had brought a train-load of men to Roseville, and
from there to Paradise by automobiles, with armed guards to
defend them. There had been more mob scenes; and also
fights between the deputies and strikers at various other places.
It was not long before several strikers were wounded, and a
couple of deputies badly beaten. The Federation issued an
appeal to the governor to send in militia to protect them in
their rights, which were being jeopardized by lawless criminals,
organized to defy the State of California, and cripple the
country on the eve of war.</p>

<p class="pindent">Nine people out of ten read these things in the papers
and believed them. Practically everyone Bunny knew believed
them, and thought he was some kind of freak because he
hesitated and doubted. Aunt Emma, for example; she just
knew the strikers were born criminals, and German agents
besides, or at any rate in league with German agents, and what
difference did it make? The ladies in the clubs had inside information,
right from headquarters, for many of them were
the wives of influential men, who learned what was going
on, and told their wives, and the wives told Aunt Emma, who
was thrilled to be on the inside, as her brother-in-law’s financial
position entitled her.</p>

<p class="pindent">And Bertie, who was still worse, the very princess of all
the tight little snobs you ever knew! Bertie went round with
the younger set, and these likewise knew everything, but without
having to wait for anyone to tell them. Bertie had condescended
to visit one of her father’s oil wells now and then,
and there she had noted a race of lower beings at their appointed
tasks—creatures smudged with black, who tipped their caps to
her, or forgot to, but in either case stared with dumb awe,
and beneath their lowering brows showed signs of intelligence
that was almost human, and filled Bertie with uneasiness. She
had visited Paradise once, and spent a night at the cabin, and
patronized Paul and Ruth while they waited upon her, and
both of them, sensing this, had been frozen to silence, and
Bertie had condescended to admit that they were very decent
working people, but she couldn’t comprehend why her brother
persisted in making intimates of such. “My God,” stormed
Bunny, in a rage, “what are we?” And that, of course, was
disgusting of him—to remind his sister that their father had
been driving mule-teams in a construction camp once upon a
not very long time, and why was it any better to drive mules
than to build houses? Bertie said with dignity that her
father had raised himself by innate superiority; she knew
he had “good blood,” even though she could not prove it.
Bunny answered that Paul and Ruth might have “good
blood” too, and they were certainly on the way to raising
themselves.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was a subject about which the two would never cease to
quarrel. Bertie insisted that Paul patronized her brother, and
presumed upon his good nature, taking towards him an intolerable
attitude of superiority. Paul had taken to calling him
“son,” as he heard Dad doing, and such impudence was that!
Bertie referred to her brother’s friend as “your old Paul;” and,
said Bertie, “your old Paul has gone and turned traitor to Dad,
and it’s just what I told you all along, you can’t trust such
people.” And when Bertie found that Bunny was half-heartedly
sympathizing with Paul, and yearning towards the “mob” himself,
she called him a perfect little wretch, an ingrate, and what
not. Their father was risking his life, staying up there among
those outlaw mobs, something which none of the other operators
did—they remained in their offices in Angel City, and let their
agents break the strike for them. But Dad, of course, was
influenced by Bunny, with his silly, sentimental notions; and
if anything were to happen to him up there, Bunny would
carry the responsibility all his life.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad came home after a few days, and made Bertie still
more indignant by telling the members of the family they would
have to go slow on expenditures until the strike was over; he
was going to have a hard time with his financing. Bertie
suggested sarcastically that Bunny might like to sell his car
to help his father out in the pinch. Dad told how there had
been a little fuss on the property, one of the strikers had got
into a fight with a guard at night; it wasn’t clear just whose
the blame was, but the captain of the guards had threatened
to withdraw them all if Dad did not turn the strikers out
of the bunk-house and off the property. They had finally
compromised by Dad’s putting up a fence between the rest of
the property, and the part near the road which was occupied
by the bunk-house and the homes of the men. It was a fence
of barbed wire, eight feet high, and Bertie remarked sarcastically
that it would be another place where Bunny and “his
Ruth” could grow roses. This jibe hurt, because it summed
up to Bunny the part he was playing in this struggle—growing
roses on the barbed wire fence which separated capital from
labor.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad rebuked Bertie, saying that the men were not criminals,
they were decent fellows, most of them, and good Americans;
the Germans had nothing to do with it at all. The trouble
was, they were being misled by agitators just now. But that
didn’t help matters with Bertie, because “Bunny’s old Paul”
was one of the worst of these agitators. And Bertie didn’t
think her father ought to sleep up there in that lonely cabin,
and let those Watkins people cook for him. She had heard
a wild tale about some restaurant workers on strike who had
put poison in the soup; and when Dad and Bunny burst into
laughter at that, she said she didn’t exactly mean Paul or Ruth
would do such a thing, but they certainly couldn’t enjoy cooking
for both the strikers and for Dad at the same time, and Dad
ought to be indignant with them for deserting him in a crisis.
Bunny took occasion to declare that Ruth was a true-hearted
girl; and his sister broke in, oh yes, of course, she knew
Bunny’s admiration for the wonderful Miss Ruth, the next
thing they’d be hearing he was in love with her—or would it
be with Meelie, or what was the other one’s name?</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny got up and walked out of the room. Bunny was in
love with somebody else, and his sister was hateful in this
attitude of class-bigotry. And yet, he had to remind himself,
within her own circle Bertie was generous, and sometimes
tender-hearted. She was loyal to her friends, she would help
them if they got into trouble, and would work and scheme to
entertain them. You see, Bertie knew these people; they were
all rich, and so she considered them her equals, and was willing
to enter into their lives. But the oil workers Bertie did not
know; they were a lower order of beings, created for her
pleasure, and owing her a debt of submission, which they were
trying to get out of paying.</p>

<p class="pindent">And what was Bertie, that the oil workers should support
her? She was a dashing and brilliant young person, who knew
how to spend a great deal of money in super-elegant ways,
in the company of other young persons possessing the same
accomplishment; she was racing about with them, and her talk
was of what they said and what they did and what they owned.
Bertie was going a fast pace, seldom in before the small hours
of the morning, and if she was up before lunch, it was because
she had an engagement to rush away. What was the use
of having a lot of money if you didn’t have a good time with
it? That was the doctrine Bertie hammered into her younger
brother; and Aunt Emma echoed it; and now came Eunice
Hoyt, who had chosen Bunny, and had the most powerful
leverage of all. Be young, be young! everybody cried. Why
should you carry all the burden of the world upon your
shoulders? Especially since there was not a thing you could
do—since the world was fixed and ordained, and would not
let you touch the least of all its vested and endowed and
chartered disharmonies!</p>

<h3>VII</h3>

<p class="pindent">The German submarines had sunk one American vessel
too many, and America was going to war; Congress had
been summoned, and the whole country was on tiptoe with
belligerency. The newspapers had pages of despatches from
Washington and New York, and from the capitals of Europe;
so it was not surprising that the news of the Paradise oil
strike got crowded out. Once in a while you saw an inch or
two buried in a back page; three strikers had been arrested,
charged with beating up a strike-breaker on a dark night; it was
declared by the operators that the strikers had attempted to set
fires in the district, and that German agents were active among
the trouble-makers: some little thing like that, to remind you
that three thousand men, and the wives and children of many
of them, were waging a desperate struggle with starvation.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad of course had daily reports of what was happening,
and so Bunny got the news. Little by little the operators had
gathered up a supply of men, paying them extra wages, and
bringing them to the field. They were seldom skilled men, and
there were many accidents; nevertheless, a number of the wells
were back on production, and in two or three cases some
drilling was being done. But on the Ross tract everything
stood idle; and Bunny could see that his father was irritated
by this situation. He was losing a fortune every day—and at
the same time losing caste with his associates, who thought he
was either crack-brained, or a traitor, they could not make
out which. Of course, the Big Five were glad enough to see
one of the independents cutting his own throat; but they
pretended to be indignant, and spread rumors and propaganda
against their rival, and magnified the trouble he was causing
in the field.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny could see all this, and he got the sting of it from
the gossip which Aunt Emma brought home from the clubs,
and Bertie from her house-parties and dinner-dances. And
then he would think of the men, clinging pitifully to their hope
of a better life, and his heart would be torn in half. There
was only one thing that could justify Dad’s course, and that
was for the men to win; they must win, they must! It was
the way Bunny felt when he sat and watched a football game,
and cheered himself hoarse for the home-team. He had an
impulse to jump into the arena and help the team—but alas,
the rules of the game forbade such action!</p>

<p class="pindent">There had been more trouble with the guards at the Ross
tract, and Dad was going up to the field, and Bunny went
along for a week-end. It was springtime now, and the hills
were green, and the fruit-trees in blossom—oh, beautiful,
beautiful! But human beings were miserable, millions of them,
and why could they not learn to be happy in such a world? It
was springtime all over the country, and yet everybody was
preparing to go to war, and form vast armies, and kill other
people, also groping for happiness! Everybody said that it
had to be; and yet something in Bunny would not cease to
dream of a world in which people did not maim and kill one
another, and destroy, not merely the happiness of others, but
their own.</p>

<p class="pindent">They came to Paradise, and there was the strange sight
of idle men, hanging about the streets; and of guards at the
entrances to all the oil properties. There was somebody making
a speech on a vacant lot, and a crowd listening. It was a
great time for all sorts of cranks with things to teach—itinerant
evangelists, and patent medicine venders, and Socialist
orators—the people heard them all impartially. Bunny found
that his reading-room was being patronized now, there were
men who had read all the magazines, even to the advertisements!</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad interviewed a committee of his men. It was an impossible
situation, they reported, the guards were deliberately
making trouble, they were drunk part of the time, and didn’t
know what they were doing or had done. Therefore the union
had put up some more tents, and the men in the bunk-house
were about to move out. Those who had families, and occupied
the houses, would try to stay on, if Mr. Ross would permit it;
there was no place for the families to go, and they dared not
leave the women and children alone in the neighborhood of the
guards. Dad interviewed the captain of the latter, and got
the information that the men had liquor, of course; how could
you expect men to stay in a God-forsaken hole like this without
liquor? Dad had to admit that was true; men were like
that, and when you had your property to protect in an emergency,
you had to take what you could get. Bunny wasn’t
satisfied with this argument, but then, Bunny was an “idealist,”
and such people are seldom satisfied in this harsh world.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny went up to see Ruth and Meelie—the place to get
the news! The girls were hard at work baking, but that didn’t
occupy their tongues, and from Meelie’s there poured a stream
of gossip. Dick Nelson was in hospital with a part of his
jaw shot away—that nice young fellow, Bunny remembered
him, he had worked on Number Eleven well; he had knocked
a guard down for dirty talk to his sister, and two other guards
had shot him. And Bob Murphy was in jail, he had been
arrested when they were bringing the strike-breakers into the
Victor place. And so on, name after name that Bunny knew.
Meelie’s eyes were wide with horror, and yet you could see
that she was young, and this was more excitement than had
ever come into her life before. If the devil, with his hoofs
and horns and pitchfork and burning smell, had appeared at
a meeting of the Tabernacle of the Third Revelation, Meelie
would have enjoyed the sensation; and in the same way
she enjoyed this crew of whiskey-drinking, cursing ruffians,
suddenly vomited out of the city’s underworld into her peaceful
and pious and springtime-decorated village.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny asked about Paul, and learned that he had been put
on the strike committee, and was editing a little paper which
the union was publishing; it was lovely, and had Bunny seen it?
They produced a copy—a double sheet, mimeographed on both
sides for economy, and with a little oil-derrick at the top of the
first sheet, alongside the title, “The Labor Defender.” It was
full of strike news, and exhortations, and an appeal to the
governor of the State against the violence of the deputies and
the refusal of the sheriff to take their whiskey away; also there
was a poem, “Labor Awake, by Mrs. Weenie Martin, a Tool-dresser’s
Wife.” Paul had just got back from a trip to some
of the other fields, where he had gone to persuade the men to
join the strike; in Oil Center they had tried to arrest him, but
he had got a tip and got away by a back road.</p>

<p class="pindent">America was going to war, and everybody was thrilled about
it; at school they were singing patriotic songs and organizing
drill corps. This oil war was so little in comparison that
nobody heeded it; but it got hold of Bunny, and came to seem
the big war to him. All this arrogance of power, this defiance
of law and decency, this miserable lying about workingmen!
Here Bunny got the truth, he got it face to face with the men
and women whom he knew; and then he would remember the
tales he had read in the newspapers—and would hate himself,
because he lived upon money which had been obtained by such
means! His father was paying the “assessments” of the
Federation, and thus paying the salaries of these blackguards—paying
for their guns and ammunition, and for the
bottles of whiskey without which they would not stay!</p>

<p class="pindent">What did it mean? What was back of it? One thing—the
greed of a little ruling group of operators, who wouldn’t pay
their men a living wage, but would work them twelve hours
a day. They were driving the men with revolvers and rifles,
holding them away from the wells, their only source of livelihood,
and starving them back to work on the old unfair terms.
That was the story, just that simple; and here, in Ruth’s little
kitchen, you saw the process from the inside. The girls had
had to reduce the price of the bread they sold, because some
people couldn’t afford it otherwise! Oil workers never do
save much, because they have to move about, and to bring their
families, or to send them money. And now their savings were
used up, and the contributions which came from other fields
were not enough, and Paul, who had been saving money to
study and become a scientist, was using it to support hungry
families, and Ruth and Meelie were giving all their time, and
even old Mrs. Watkins was helping when she could!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny carried this anguish back to his father. What were
the people going to do, when they no longer had food to keep
alive? Dad gave the answer, they’d have to go back to work!
“And lose the strike, Dad?” Yes, he said, if they couldn’t win,
they’d have to lose—that was the law of strikes, as of everything
else. Life was stern, and sooner or later you had to
learn it. They must give up, and wait till a time when their
union was stronger. “But, Dad, how can they make it stronger,
when the operators boycott them? You know how they weed
out the union men—right now, if they give up, most of the
companies won’t take back the active ones.” And Dad said
he knew that, but the men would have to keep on trying, there
was no other way. Certainly he could not support the strike
by keeping his wells idle! The men must understand that he
couldn’t stand the gaff much longer, they had no right to
expect it; they must either close the other wells, or see the
Ross wells opened. And Bunny turned sort of sick inside,
and went about hiding a thought like a dirty vice: “We’re
going to bring scabs into our tract!”</p>

<h3>VIII</h3>

<p class="pindent">There was really only one place where Bunny could be
happy, and that was up at the bungalow. He spent his Saturday
afternoon there, helping Ruth and Meelie—the one kind
of aid he was permitted to give to the strike! Part of the
time they talked about the suffering of which they knew; and
part of the time they were jolly, making jokes like other young
people; but all the time they worked like beavers, turning flour
belonging to the union into various kinds of eatables. At
supper-time Mr. Watkins came with the wagon, his second
trip, and they loaded him up, and Meelie drove off with him
to headquarters, while Bunny stayed with Ruth, and helped
clean up the place, and tried to explain the predicament of his
father, and why he, Bunny, could not really help the strike.</p>

<p class="pindent">On Sunday he went in to the meetings, and heard Paul
make another speech. Paul, always sombre looking, was now
gaunt from several weeks of little food and less sleep, and there
was a fury of passion in his voice; he told about his trip to the
other fields, and how there was no justice anywhere—the
authorities of town and county and state were simply pawns
of the operators, doing everything possible to hold the men
down and break their organization. In this white flame of
suffering Paul’s spirit had been tempered to steel, and the
crowd of workers shared this process, and took new vows
of solidarity; Bunny felt the thrill of a great mass experience,
and yearned to be part of it, and then shrunk back,
like the young man in the Bible story who had too many
possessions.</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul had seen him in the crowd, and after the meeting
sought him out. “I want to talk to you,” he said, and they
strolled away from the others, and Paul, who had no time to
waste, came directly to the point:</p>

<p class="pindent">“See here, I want you to let my sister alone.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Let her alone!” cried the other, and stopped short in his
tracks, and stared at Paul. “Why, what do you mean?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Meelie tells me you’ve been up there at the place a lot—you
were there last evening with her.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But Paul! Somebody had to stay with her!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“We’ll take care of ourselves; she could have come to
father’s place. And I want you to understand, I won’t have
any rich young fellows hanging round my sister.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But Paul!” Bunny’s tone was one of shocked grief.
“Truly, Paul, you’re utterly mistaken.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I don’t want you to be mistaken about this one thing—if
any fellow was to do any wrong to my sister, I’d kill him,
just as sure as anything on earth.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But Paul, I never dreamed of such a thing! Why, listen—I’ll
tell you—I’m in love with a girl—a girl in school. Oh,
honest, Paul, I’m terribly in love, and I—I couldn’t think of
anybody else that way.”</p>

<p class="pindent">A quick blush had spread over Bunny’s face as he made
this confession, and it was impossible not to realize that he
was sincere. Paul’s voice became kinder. “Listen, son; you’re
not a child any more, and neither is Ruth. I don’t doubt what
you say—naturally, you’ll pick out some girl of your own
class. But it mightn’t be that way with Ruth, she might get to
be interested in you, and you ought to keep away.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny didn’t know what to say to that—the idea was too
new to him. “I wanted to know about the strike,” he explained;
“and I’ve had no chance to talk with you at all. You can’t
imagine how bad I feel, but I don’t know what to do.” He
rushed on, crowding all his grief into a few sentences; he was
torn in half, between his loyalty to his father and his sympathy
for the men; it was a trap he was in, and what could he do?</p>

<p class="pindent">When Paul answered, his voice was hard again. “Your
father is helping to keep these blackguards in the field, I
understand.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“He’s paying assessments, if that’s what you mean. He’s
under contract with the Federation—when he joined—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No contract is valid that requires breaking the law! And
don’t you know these fellows are breaking a hundred laws
a day?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I know, Paul; but Dad is tied up with the other operators;
you don’t understand—he’s really having trouble financially,
because his wells are shut down; and he’s doing that entirely
for the men.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I know it, and we appreciate it. But now he says he’s
got to give up, and bring in scabs like the rest. They’re
driving us beyond endurance; they’re making a dirty fight, and
your father knows it—and yet he goes along with them!”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a pause, and Paul went on, grimly. “I know, of
course; his money is at stake, and he won’t risk it; and you’ll
do what he tells you.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But Paul! I couldn’t oppose Dad! Would you expect
that?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“When my father set up his will, and tried to keep me
from thinking and learning the truth, I opposed him, didn’t
I? And you encouraged me to do it—you thought that was
all right.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But Paul! If I were to oppose Dad in such a thing—why,
I’d break his heart.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, maybe I broke my father’s heart—I don’t know,
and neither do you. The point is, your father’s doing wrong,
and you know it; he’s helping to turn these ruffians loose on
us, and deprive us of our rights as citizens, and even as human
beings. You can’t deny that, and you have a duty that you
owe to the truth.”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a silence, while Bunny tried to face the appalling
idea of opposing Dad, as Paul had opposed old Mr. Watkins.
It had seemed so right in the one case, and seemed so impossible
in the other!</p>

<p class="pindent">At last Paul went on. “I know how it is, son. You won’t
do it, you haven’t the nerve for it—you’re soft.” He waited,
while those cruel words sank in. “Yes, that’s the word, soft.
You’ve always had everything you wanted—you’ve had it
handed to you on a silver tray, and it’s made you a weakling.
You have a good heart, and you know what’s right, but you
couldn’t bear to act, you’d be too afraid of hurting somebody.”</p>

<p class="pindent">And that was the end of their talk. Paul had nothing
more to say, and Bunny had no answer. Tears had come into
his eyes—and that was weak, wasn’t it? He turned his head
away, so that Paul might not see them.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well,” said the latter, “I’ve got a pile of work to do, so
I’ll be off. This fight will be over some day, and your father
will go on making money, and I hope it will bring you happiness,
but I doubt it, really. Good-bye, son.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Good-bye,” said Bunny, feebly; and Paul turned on his
heel and hurried away.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny walked on, and there was a fever in his soul. He
was enraged because of Paul’s lack of understanding, his cruel
harshness; but all the time another voice inside him kept insisting,
“He’s right! You’re soft, you’re soft—that’s the word
for it!” Here, you see, was the thing in Bunny which made
his sister Bertie so absolutely furious; that Bunny subjected
himself to Paul, that he was willing to let Paul kick him, and
to take it meekly. He was so utterly without sense of the
dignity which his father’s millions conferred upon him!</p>

<h3>IX</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny went back to school, and the oil workers took a
hitch in their belts, hanging on by their eye teeth, as the saying
is. Meantime, America was in the war, and Congress was
passing a series of measures—one providing for a vast “liberty
loan,” to pay the war costs, and another for the registering of
all men of fighting age, and the drafting of a huge army.</p>

<p class="pindent">And then began to come wild rumors of a truce with labor.
It came first in connection with the railway men, many of whom
were on strike for a living wage and better conditions. The
railways were absolutely vital to the winning of the war, and
so Congress must authorize the Government to intervene in
disputes, and make terms with the unions, and see that everybody
got a square deal. If such steps were taken for the
railway men, they would surely have to be taken for others;
the oil workers might get those rights of which the Employers’
Federation was endeavoring to deprive them! The labor press
was full of talk about the new deal that was coming, and telegrams
came from labor headquarters in Washington, bidding
the men at Paradise stand firm.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was like the “big scene” in the old “ten-twenty-thirty”
melodrama that we used to see on the Bowery in our boyhood,
in which the heroine is lashed to a log in the saw-mill, and
being swiftly drawn to the place where she will be sliced down
the middle; the hero comes galloping madly on horseback, and
leaps from his steed, and smashes in the door with an axe,
and springs to the lever and stops the machinery at exactly
the critical instant. Or, if you want to be more high-brow
and dignified, it was like the ancient Greek tragedies, in which,
after the fates of all the characters have been tied into a
hopeless knot, a god descends from the sky in a machine, and
steps out, and resolves the perplexities, and virtue is triumphant
and vice is cast down. You believe this, because it is in a
Greek classic; but you will find it less easy to believe that the
“open shop crowd” of California, the whole power of their
industrial system, with all the millions of their banks, their
political machine and their strike-breaking agencies, their spies
and gunmen, and their state militiamen with machine guns
and armored cars in the background—that all this terrific power
felt its hand suddenly grasped by a stronger hand, and drawn
back from the throat of its victim! Another god descended
from a machine—a lean old Yankee divinity, with a white goatee
and a suit made of red and white stripes with blue stars
spangled over it; Uncle Sam himself stretched out his mighty
hand, and declared that oil workers were human beings as
well as citizens, and would be protected in their rights as both!</p>

<p class="pindent">The announcement came from labor headquarters in Washington,
saying that the oil workers would get a living wage and
the eight hour day; a government “conciliator” would be sent
out to see to it, and meantime, they were to go back to work,
so that the benevolent old gentleman with the white goatee
and the red, white and blue suit might have all the oil he
needed. The President of the United States was making
speeches—oh, such wonderful, convincing speeches, about the
war that was to end war, and bring justice to all mankind,
and establish the rule of the people and by the people and for
the people over all the earth. Such thrills as shook all hearts,
such a fervor of consecration! And such rejoicing on the
playground of the school-house at Paradise, when the news
came that the gunmen would slink back into the slums from
which they had come, and that work was to start up at once!</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad got the news early in the morning, and Bunny danced
all over the house, and made as much noise as if it were a
football game; and Dad said he felt pretty good himself, it
would sure be nice to get those wells on production again, he
wouldn’t have been able to hold on another week without them.
And Bunny said he’d cut school in the afternoon, and they’d
drive out and see the celebration, and make friends with everybody
again, and get things started. The first thing they would
do was to tear down that barbed wire fence that separated
capital from labor! In the new world there would be no more
barbed wire and no more bad feeling—the roses would bloom
on the hedges in front of the workers’ homes, and there would
be a book of the President’s speeches in the reading-room, and
all the oil workers would have time to read it!</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER VIII<br /> <span class="sub-head">THE WAR</span></h1></div>

<h3>I</h3>

<p class="pindent">Eunice Hoyt was the daughter of “Tommy” Hoyt, of Hoyt
and Brainerd, whose advertisements of investment securities
you saw on the financial pages of the Beach City newspapers.
Tommy you saw at racing meets and boxing events, and generally
you noticed that he had with him a new lady, highly and
artificially colored; sometimes she wore a veil, and you kept
tactfully out of the way, understanding that Tommy was “playing
the woman game.” Mrs. Tommy you saw pictured among
“the distinguished hostesses of the week”; she went in for art,
and there would be a soulful young man about the house. The
servants understood the situation, and so did Eunice.</p>

<p class="pindent">She was dark and slender, a quick and impatient little thing,
with an abundance of what was currently known as “pep.” She
was in two of Bunny’s classes, and discovering that he was a
serious youngster, she worried him by saying sharp and cutting
things, that he was never sure whether she meant or not;
he dared not ask, because then she would tease him worse than
ever. There were always half a dozen fellows following her
about, so it was easy to keep out of the way.</p>

<p class="pindent">But one Saturday afternoon Bunny won the 220-yard run
for the school team, and that made him a bit of a hero, and
boys and girls swarmed about him, cheering and patting him
on the back. Then, after he had had his shower and was
dressed, he went out in search of his car, and there was Eunice
just getting into her roadster, and she said, “Let me take you.”
He answered, “I’ve got my own car here,” and she exclaimed,
“Why, you horrid rude thing! Get into this car at once, sir!”
So of course he did, a little rattled. When she said, “Are you
afraid somebody will steal that cheap old car of yours?”—was
it up to him to defend the newness and expensiveness of Dad’s
latest gift?</p>

<p class="pindent">“Bunny,” she said, “my mother and father are having a
row at home, and it’s horrid there.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, what do you want to do?” said he, sympathetically.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Let’s go somewhere and have supper—away from everything.
You come, and it’ll be my party.”</p>

<p class="pindent">So they drove for an hour or so, and climbed by a winding
road to the top of a hill, and there was a café, with a terrace
looking out over a bay and a rocky shore-line that would have
been famous if it had been in Italy. They ate supper, and
chatted about school affairs, and Eunice told him about her
home-life and how some one had written her mother a letter
revealing that her father had paid a lot of money to some
woman, and Mrs. Hoyt was furious, because why should men
do things that made it necessary for them to pay money?</p>

<p class="pindent">The sun set over the ocean, and the lights came out along
the shore, and a big full moon behind the hills; and Eunice
said, “Do you like me a little bit, Bunny?” He answered that
of course he did, and she said, “But you don’t show it ever.”
“Well,” he explained, “I never know quite what to make of
you, because you always kid me;” and to that she said, “I know,
Bunny, I’m a horrid mean thing, but the truth is, I just do
that to keep my courage up. I’m afraid of you, too, because
you’re serious, and I’m just a silly chatterbox, and I have to
make a show.” So after that Bunny was able to enjoy the
party.</p>

<p class="pindent">They got into the car and drove again. The road ran
through a tangle of sand-dunes, high up above the ocean. “Oh,
this is lovely!” said Eunice, and when they came to a place
where the ground was firm she ran the car off the pavement and
parked it. “Let’s go and watch the ocean,” she said. “There’s
a rug in the back.” So Bunny got the rug out, and they
walked over the dunes, and sat on top of one, and listened to
the waves below; and Eunice smoked a cigarette, and scolded
Bunny because he was a horrid little Puritan that wouldn’t keep
her company. Presently a man came walking by, and glanced
at them as he passed, and Eunice said, “Have you got a gun?”
And when he said that he hadn’t, she remarked, “You’re supposed
to bring a gun nowadays when you go on a petting
party.” Bunny had not realized that this was exactly a petting
party, but you can see that it would not have been polite of
him to say so.</p>

<p class="pindent">He listened while she told him about bandits who were
making a business of holding up couples parked by the roadside;
some were beastly to the girls, and what would Bunny
do if one of them were suddenly to appear? Bunny said he
didn’t know, but of course he’d defend a woman the best he
could. “But I don’t want you to get shot,” said Eunice. “We’ve
a scandal already in our family.” So she said, “Let’s get lost,
Bunny;” and he gathered up the rug and they wandered over
the dunes—a long way from the road and from everything;
and in one of the hollows, a still nest where the sand was soft
and smooth, she told him to spread the rug again, and there
they sat, hid from everything save the round yellow moon,
which has looked down upon millions and millions of such
scenes, and never yet betrayed a confidence.</p>

<p class="pindent">They sat close together, and Eunice rested her head against
Bunny’s shoulder and whispered, “Do you care for me a little
bit?” He assured her that he did, but she said, no, he must
think she was a horrid bold thing; and when he declared that
he didn’t, she said, “Then why don’t you kiss me?” He began
to kiss her, but she wasn’t satisfied—he didn’t mean it, she
said; and suddenly she whispered, “Bunny, I don’t believe
you’ve ever really loved a girl before!”</p>

<p class="pindent">He admitted that he had not. “I’ve always known you
were a queer boy,” she said. “What is the matter?” Bunny
said he didn’t quite know; he was trembling violently, because
he had never had anything like this happen to him, and several
different emotions clamored at the same time, and which one
should he follow? “Let me teach you, Bunny,” whispered the
girl; and when he did not answer at once, she put her lips upon
his, in a long kiss that made him dizzy. He murmured faintly
that something might happen, she might get into trouble; but
she told him not to worry about that, she knew about those
things and had taken the needed precautions.</p>

<h3>II</h3>

<p class="pindent">Such was the way of Bunny’s initiation into the adult life.
Gone were the days of happy innocence when he could be
content to sit holding hands with Rosie Taintor. “Holding
hands” was now walking on a slippery ledge, over a dark abyss
where pleasure and pain were so mingled you could hardly
tell them apart. Bunny was frightened by the storm of emotion
which seized upon him, and still more by the behavior of
the girl in his arms; a kind of frenzy shook her, she clung to
him in a convulsion of excitement, half sobbing, half laughing,
with little cries as of an animal in pain. And Bunny must
share this delirium, she would not have it otherwise, she was
furious in her exactions, the mistress of these dark rites, and
he must obey her will. The first time, the boy was overwhelmed
by the realization of what he had done, but she clung to him,
whispering, “Oh, Bunny don’t be ashamed! No, no! I won’t
let you be ashamed! Why haven’t we got a right to be happy?
Oh, please, please, be happy!” So he had to promise, and do
his best.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, Bunny, you are such a sweet lover! And we are going
to have such good times.” This was her crooning song,
wrapped in his arms, there under the springtime moon, which
is the same in California as everywhere else in the world. And
when the chill of the California night began to creep into their
bones, they could hardly tear themselves apart, but all the way
over the dunes they walked arm in arm, kissing as they went.
“Oh, Bunny, it was bold and bad of me, but tell me you forgive
me, tell me you’re glad I did it!” It appeared to be his
duty to comfort her.</p>

<p class="pindent">Driving back to Beach City they talked about this adventure.
Bunny hadn’t thought much about sex, he had no philosophy
ready at hand, but Eunice had hers, and told it to him
simply and frankly. The old people taught you a lot of
rubbish about it, and then they sneaked off and lived differently,
and why should you let yourself be fooled by silly “don’ts”?
Love was all right if you were decent about it, and when you
had found out that you didn’t have to have any babies, why
must you bother to get married? Most married people were
miserable anyhow, and if the young people could find a way to
be happy, it was up to them, and what the old folks didn’t
know wouldn’t hurt them.</p>

<p class="pindent">Did Bunny see anything wrong with that? Bunny answered
that he didn’t; the reason he had been “such an old prude,”
was just that he hadn’t got to know Eunice. She said that
men were supposed not to care for a girl who made advances
to them; therefore, she added with her flash of mischief, it
would be up to Bunny to make some of the advances from
now on. He said he would do so, and would have started at
once, only Eunice was driving at forty-some miles an hour,
and it would be better to hurt her feelings than to upset the car.</p>

<p class="pindent">Were there other girls like Eunice, Bunny wanted to know,
and she said there were plenty, and named a few, and Bunny
was surprised and a little shocked, because some of them were
prominent in class affairs, and decorous-seeming. Eunice told
him about their ways, and it was a good deal like a secret
society, without any officers or formal ritual, but with a strict
code none the less. They called themselves “the Zulus,” these
bold spirits who had dared to do as they pleased; they kept one
another’s secrets faithfully, and helped the younger ones to
that knowledge which was so essential to happiness. The old
guarded this knowledge jealously—how to keep from having
babies, and what to do if you got “caught.” There was a secret
lore about the art of love, and books that you bought in certain
stores, or found stowed away behind other books in your
father’s den. Such volumes would be passed about and read
by scores.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was a new ethical code that these young people were
making for themselves, without any help from their parents.
Eunice did not know, of course, that she was doing anything
so imposing as that; she just talked about her feelings, and
what she liked and what she feared. Was it right to love this
way or that? And what did Bunny think about the possibility
of loving two girls at the same time? Claire Reynolds said
you couldn’t, but Billy Rosen said you could, and they were
wrangling all the time. But Mary Blake got along quite happily
with two boys who loved her and had agreed not to be
jealous.—This was a new world into which Bunny was being
introduced, and he asked a lot of questions, and could not help
blushing at some of Eunice’s matter-of-fact replies.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny crept into the house at two o’clock in the morning,
and no member of the family was the wiser. But he was
equally as late the next night, and the next—had he not promised
Eunice to “make the advances”? So of course the family
realized that something was up, and it was interesting to see
their reactions. Aunt Emma and Grandma were in a terrible
“state,”: but they could not say why—such was the handicap
the old generation imposed upon themselves. They both went
to Dad, but could only talk about late hours and their effect
on a boy’s health. And Dad himself could not do much more.
When Bunny said that he had been taking Eunice Hoyt driving,
Dad asked about her, was she a “nice” girl? Bunny
answered that she was the treasurer of the girls’ basket-ball
team, and her father was Mr. Hoyt, whom Dad knew, and she
had her own car and had even tried to pay for the supper. So
there could be no idea that Bunny was being “vamped,” and
all Dad said was “Take it easy, son, don’t try to live your whole
life in a couple of weeks.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Also there was Bunny’s sister, and that was curious. Had
some underground message come to Bertie, through connections
with the “Zulus”? All that she said was, “I’m glad you’ve
consented to take an interest in something beside oil and strikers
for a change.” But behind that sentence lay such an ocean of
calm feminine knowledge! Bunny was started upon a new
train of thought. Could it be that late hours meant the same
thing for his sister that they had suddenly come to mean for
him? Bertie was supposed to be dancing; and did she always
come directly home, or did she also park by the waysides?
Bunny had got over being shocked by the parking of Eunice’s
car, but it took him longer to get used to the idea of the parking
of his sister’s car. He began to notice, as he drove along the
highways in the evening—what a great number of parked
cars there were!</p>

<h3>III</h3>

<p class="pindent">All this was near the end of the strike; and also it was
while America was going to war. So the excitements of sex
were mingled in Bunny’s mind with those of patriotism. The
two were not so far apart as you might think, for the youth of
the country was preparing to march away to battle, and that
loosened sexual standards. You might not come back, so it
made less difference what you did in the meantime. The girls
found their hearts softened toward the boys, and the boys
were ready to snatch a bit of pleasure before it was too late.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny was too young for the first draft, but he went to
drilling at school, which cast the military halo about him. There
was a high school corps, provided with old rifles of the state
militia, and the athletic-ield was covered with groups of lads
marching, “Hep, hep! Hep, hep! Squad right! Squad left!”—treading
on one another’s toes, but keeping the grim look on
their young faces. Soon they would have uniforms, and so
would the girls of the nurses’ training corps. Boys and girls
met in school assembly and sang patriotic songs with fervor.</p>

<p class="pindent">Yes, it was war! Whole fleets of cargo vessels were taking
supplies to England and France, and brigades of engineers and
laborers to prepare the way for the army. The President was
making speeches—wonderful, glowing, eloquent speeches.
There was a race of evil men, the Huns, who had risen up to
threaten civilization, and now the might of democratic America
was going to put them down. When this job had been
done, there would be an end to all the world’s troubles; so the
duty of every patriot was to take his part in this last of all
wars—the War to end War—the War for Democracy. Statesmen
big and little took up the chorus, the newspapers echoed
it a million copies every hour, and a host of “four minute men”
were trained, to go into factories and theatres, and wherever
crowds were gathered, to rouse America for this crusade.</p>

<p class="pindent">The Ross family, like all other families, read, and listened,
and argued. Bunny, the young idealist, swallowed every word
of the propaganda; it was exactly what he wanted to believe,
his kind of mental food. He would argue with his cool, slow-moving,
quietly dubious father. Yes, of course, Dad would
say, we had to win the war; we had to win any war we got
into. But as to the future, well, it would be time to decide
about that when we came to it. First, Dad was occupied with
getting the strike settled, and after that, with selling oil on a
constantly rising market. There was no sense giving it away,
because the government wanted more wells drilled, and how
were they to be financed, unless the product was paid for? The
government was paying generously, and that was patriotism
enough for Dad; he would see to the spouting of his wells, and
leave the other kinds of spouting to the politicians.</p>

<p class="pindent">Aunt Emma considered that a shameful way to talk to a
boy, and she scolded vigorously, according to the privilege of
“in-laws.” Aunt Emma would go to the clubs and listen to
the patriotic lady-orators, telling about Belgian babies with
their hands cut off, and munition depots blown up by German
spies, and she would come home in a blaze of militarism. Bertie
was even worse, for her young man who took her to the jazz-parties
was active in one of the defense societies, and knew
the names of all the German agents in Southern California,
and the villainies they were planning; so Bertie was full of
dark hints, and a sense of awful responsibility.</p>

<p class="pindent">You could never tell how this war excitement was going
to hit any one person. For example, could you have imagined
that a perfectly respectable old lady of way over seventy,
brought up on a ranch, and supposed to be wrapped up in
painting in oils, would suddenly blossom out as a Hun sympathizer?
Such was Grandma, who declared that she had no
use whatsoever for this war; the Germans were no worse than
any of the other people concerned, they were all stained with
blood, and all there was to the atrocity stories and spy rubbish
was to make people hate the enemy. But Grandma wasn’t
going to hate anybody, no matter how much Emma and Bertie
and the rest might rage; she proceeded to show her defiance
by painting a picture of some Germans in old-time costumes
drinking beer out of painted steins. She wanted to hang this
in the dining-room, and there was a great row, with Aunt
Emma and Bertie trying to persuade Dad to forbid it!</p>

<p class="pindent">All this was part of Bunny’s education; he listened and
learned. From his quiet, steady old father he learned to smile
amiably over the foibles of human nature, and to go on gathering
in the dollars. Talk was all right, but after all, what was
going to win the war was bullets and shells, and to get them to
the battle-field you had to have transportation. The oil that
Dad brought up out of the ground was driving big trucks that
were carrying munitions up to the front; it was moving the
biggest and fastest cargo-ships, and the swift destroyers that
were protecting them; it was lubricating the machinery in the
factories, and more and more was being called for. As soon
as the strike was over, Dad proceeded to sign contracts with
the government, and to put down a dozen new wells in the
Paradise field. The one thing that was troubling him was that
he could not make three times as many contracts and put down
three times as many wells; the big fellows, who controlled the
banks, would not let him have enough money—at least not
unless he would go in with them and let them hog most of
the profits. That was a different kind of war, one going on
right at home, and there was no prospect of it’s being ended by
presidential speeches. Dad would explain that to Bunny, as
a reason for the limitations in the “idealism” of a business man!</p>

<h3>IV</h3>

<p class="pindent">Up at Paradise things were booming. All the men were
back at work—even the blacklisted ones, at a dollar a day more
and with another raise promised; a good driller was worth
just about his weight in gold. Here too came the “four minute
men,” and were listened to gladly; the oil workers were patriotic,
and would have enlisted to a man, but they were needed
on this job—there was nothing more important than oil, and
the way for them to serve their country was to keep the stuff
flowing, and watch out for fires, and for obstructions dropped
into the wells, and other acts of vandalism by enemy agents.</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul was back as Dad’s boss builder. But then came the
first draft, and Paul had one of the lucky numbers. Dad
offered to get him exempted, for obviously there had to be
shacks to house the men who were to drill and operate the new
wells. Dad had power to arrange matters—you can understand
that, when you learn that the chairman of the exemption
board was Mr. Carey, the rancher who had accepted money
from Dad to get the road built for the drilling. But Paul said
no, there were married men with families who knew as much
about building houses as he did, so Paul would do his share
in the field.</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul and Bunny were friends again, and had no end of
arguments. Paul wasn’t nearly as keen for the war as Bunny
thought he ought to be; he agreed that we had to win, since
we were in, but he wasn’t sure it was necessary for us to be
in, so Bunny had to retell the arguments he heard from the
orators at school. That made lively times at the Rascum cabin—because,
strange as it may seem, Ruth was taking exactly
the same attitude to the war as Grandma, whom Ruth had
never met. Ruth declared that all wars were wicked, and she
would never have anything to do with one. But of course you
could see what she really meant, she didn’t want Paul taken
away and killed! When Paul read his number in the first
draft-list, Ruth became quite frantic, and there was nothing
that would pacify her. She clung to Paul, vowing he should
not go, she would die of grief if he did; when she realized
that he was actually going, she went about her work, pale and
silent.</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul went away to a training-camp, and after that paleness
and silence became the dominant notes of Ruth’s character.
She went back to her father’s home to stay at night, which
meant that on Sunday’s she had to go to church with them,
and sit and bite her lips while Eli preached. For Eli was a
prophet after the old testament model, calling down judgment
upon the enemies of the Lord, smiting them hip and thigh,
leaving not one alive, not even the little ones, the “spawns of
the devil.” Eli, being a preacher, did not have to do this killing
himself; he was exempt, and so was his sister Meelie, who
solved the war problem for herself by marrying a young derrick
man and getting Dad to make him a foreman and have
him kept at home. Meelie, who was a chatterbox and a fresh
young thing, said to Bunny that Ruth ought to find herself a
husband instead of mourning over Paul; maybe the day would
come when Bunny would want to be exempted, and they might
both solve the problem at the same time!</p>

<h3>V</h3>

<p class="pindent">That was a feverish summer in Bunny’s life, between the
war and his raptures with Eunice. He spent a great deal of
time at Beach City, because he had the excuse of the military
work, and because the girl was so imperious in her demands.
Indeed, the first rift in their happiness came because he would
persist in paying visits to Paradise, where Eunice could not
very well come. She took up Bertie’s phrase that Bunny was
a “little oil gnome.” “What do you want with so much
money?” she would argue. “My God, let me get some from
Papa, if you need it!” Tommy Hoyt, it seems, had made a
huge killing, buying old hulks down at the harbor just before
the country entered the war; it was reported he had cleared a
cool three million. There had been a lot about it in the papers—all
very complimentary, since that was everybody’s dream
of glory.</p>

<p class="pindent">How could Bunny explain that it wasn’t the money, but
the fact that the country had to have oil, and he wanted to do
his share; what kind of preternatural solemnity was that for
a youth of eighteen? He put the blame on Dad, who wasn’t
very well and needed his son; and so it became an issue, which
did Bunny care for most, his Dad or his sweetheart? Eunice
would grab him by the shoulders and shake him; she had to
have some one to take her to a dance, and if he went off and
buried himself in the desert, she would get another fellow.</p>

<p class="pindent">She was insatiable, ravenous for pleasure; she never knew
when to stop, whatever it might be. “One dance more! Just
one!” she would plead; and then it would be one kiss more,
or one drink. She was always pleading with Bunny to drink,
and having her feelings hurt because he refused. How could
he count his promise to his father more than his promise to be
her pal? And how could she take him out with her crowd if
he played the part of a skeleton at a feast?</p>

<p class="pindent">Not for long was she content to lose themselves in the sand-dunes,
and share their secret with the moon. Eunice loved the
bright lights, the free and conspicuous spending of Papa’s sudden
wealth. They would drive to Angel City, where in fashionable
hotels were palatial dining-rooms, with jazz-orchestras,
and crowds of revellers, celebrating new contracts and new
financial coups. The rooms were decorated with the flags of
all the allies, and the men wore the uniforms of all the services.
This was what the war meant to Eunice, to be in this shining
company, and stand up while the orchestra played the “Star-spangled
Banner,” and after that to dance all night while it
played, “Kiss me, honey-baby,” or “Toodle-ums too,” or whatever
amorous cajolement the saxophone might present. She
was an aggressive little dancer, clinging to her partner, her
body fitted into his as if it had been moulded there. Bunny
would not have thought it quite decent to behave like that in
public, but it was the mood of the time, and no one paid any
attention to them, especially after the hours had passed and the
drinks had taken effect.</p>

<p class="pindent">There was always the problem of getting Eunice away from
these excitements. She never wanted to go, not even when she
was exhausted; he would half carry her out, and she would
fall asleep on his shoulder on the way home, and it was all he
could do to keep from falling asleep himself. There was a
boy in their crowd who would carry a broken nose about for
the rest of his life, because he had dozed at the steering-wheel
on a crowded boulevard; another had spent ten days in jail
because, after a smash-up, the police had smelled liquor on his
breath. It was the etiquette of parties that the man who had
to drive must drink only gin—not because that would not make
him drunk, but because it left no odor on his breath!</p>

<p class="pindent">The time came when Eunice decided that it was silly to
take that long drive to Beach City after dancing. She found
a hotel where you could register as Mr. and Mrs. Smith of
San Francisco and no one would ask any questions; you paid
in advance, because of your lack of baggage, and in the morning
you slipped out separately, and no one was the wiser. You
told the folks at home that you had spent the night with a
friend, and they did not pursue the matter—being afraid of
what they might find out.</p>

<p class="pindent">All this made a great difference in Bunny’s life, and before
long it began to show in his appearance; he was not quite so
rosy, and Dad took notice, and was no longer embarrassed to
speak. “You’re making a fool of yourself, son; these late
hours have got to stop.” So Bunny would try to get out of
going to some dance, and Eunice would fly into his arms, and
sob, and cling to him, moulding her body into his in that terrible,
breath-taking way she had; all Bunny’s senses would be
filled with her, the delicate perfume she used, the feeling of
the filmy stuffs she wore, her tumbled hair, her burning, swift,
persistent kisses. He would have to stand and argue and plead,
trying to keep his reason while his head went round.</p>

<p class="pindent">Sometimes there would be embarrassment mingled with his
other emotions, because these scenes took place in the drawing-room
of the Hoyt home, with either of the parents present.
But what could they do? They had raised this wild young
creature, giving her everything in the world, half a dozen
servants to wait on her, to answer her every whim. She had
always had what she wanted, and now she wanted her lover,
and all that poor Mrs. Hoyt could say was, “Don’t be hard-hearted,
Bunny”—really seeming to blame him for these tantrums
in her presence! As for poor “Tommy,” when he happened
in on a tantrum, there came a frightened look on his
rosy, rather boyish face, and he turned and skedaddled. He
had troubles enough of his own making, and the next time he
met Bunny, he set forth his point of view in one pregnant
sentence, “There’s no such thing as a normal woman in the
world!”</p>

<h3>VI</h3>

<p class="pindent">Just before school opened, Bunny took the bit in his teeth
and went to Paradise to spend a week with Dad, and found
that Paul was there on a three day’s furlough. Paul was not
going to get overseas, it appeared; the army had put him to
work at his old job—building barracks—only now, instead of
ten dollars a day he was getting thirty a month “and beans.”
That was what it meant for a workingman to be patriotic! It
was quite a contrast with Tommy Hoyt’s three millions, and the
hundred and twenty thousand a week of Dad’s oil-contracts!
But nobody thought about that, because of the eloquence of the
President’s speeches, and the concentrated ardor of the four
minute orators.</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul looked big and strong in his khaki uniform; and Ruth
was happy, because Paul wasn’t going to be killed. Meelie
was happy, because there was a baby on the way, and Sadie
because there was a young rancher “keeping company” with
her. Dad was happy, because he had brought in another
gusher, and proved up a whole new slope of the Paradise
tract; he was putting in pipe-lines and preparing a colossal
development—the bankers couldn’t keep him down, he would
finance himself with oil!</p>

<p class="pindent">Everybody was happy except Bunny, who could think of
nothing but the fact that Eunice was angry, and he was risking
the loss of her. She had warned him, she would not be left
alone; if he deserted her, she would punish him. He knew
that she meant it; she had had lovers before him, and would
have others after him. This “petting” was a daily necessity
for her, and a girl could not get it unless she was willing to
“go the limit.” That was the etiquette prevailing in this smart
and dashing crowd; the rich high school youths would go out
hunting in pairs in their fancy sport-cars, and would pick up
girls and drive them, and if the girls did not play the game
according to their taste, they would turn them out on the road,
anywhere, a score of miles from a town. There was formula,
short and snappy, “Pet or walk!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny took long tramps, trying to shake off his cruel fever.
He would come back to sleep, but instead he would think about
Eunice, and the manifold intoxication of his senses would
return; she would be there with all her allurements and her
abandonments. Bunny tried haltingly once or twice to tell
Paul about it; Paul being a sort of god, a firm and dependable
moral force, to whom one might flee. Bunny remembered the
scorn with which Paul had talked about “fornications,” and
Bunny had not known quite what he meant—but Bunny knew
now, alas, only too well. He tried to confess, but was ashamed,
and could not break down the barriers. Instead, he made some
excuse to his father and drove back to Beach City, three days
earlier than he had intended; and all the way as he rode he was
hearing Paul’s voice, those cruel words of the strike-days:
“You’re soft, Bunny, you’re soft.”</p>

<h3>VII</h3>

<p class="pindent">The first rain of the season was falling, and Bunny got in
fairly late, and found that Eunice was at home, and had not
carried out her threat to get another lover. No, she was trying
an experiment she had read about in a book of her mother’s, a
thing called “mental telepathy”; you sat and shut your eyes and
“concentrated,” “willing” that somebody should do something,
and then they would do it, and the “new thought” doctrine
would be vindicated. Eunice was trying it, and when she heard
Bunny’s step on the veranda, she sprang up with a little shriek
of delight and rushed into his arms, and while she smothered
him with kisses she told him about this marvelous triumph
of experimental psychology. “Oh, Bunny, I just knew you
couldn’t be so cruel to me! I knew you’d come, because I’m all
alone, Mamma has gone to raise money for the Serbian orphans.
Oh, Bunny, come on!”—and she started to draw him toward
the stairs.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny didn’t think that was quite the thing, and tried to
hold back, but she smothered his protest in kisses. “You silly
boy, are we going out and park in the rain? Or do you want
to go to a hotel here in town, where everybody knows us?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But, your mother, Eunice—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Mother, bunk!” said Eunice. “Mother has a lover and I
know it, and she knows I know it. If she don’t know about
you and me, it’s time she was making a guess. So you come
up to my room.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But how’ll I get out, Eunice?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You’ll get out when I let you out, and maybe it’ll be
morning, and you’ll be treated with decent hospitality.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But Eunice, I never heard of such a thing!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Bunny, you talk like your grandmother!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But what about the servants, dear?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Servants, hell!” said Eunice. “You can run your home
to please the servants, but that’s not our way—at least, not
tonight!” And to save Bunny any embarrassment, she kept
him in her room in the morning while she broke the news to
her mother; and if there were any mental agonies Bunny never
knew it, because the patroness of the Serbian orphans breakfasted
in bed, reading in the morning paper the account of her
fashionable philanthropies.</p>

<p class="pindent">After that, the ice was broken—as the French have observed,
it is the first step that counts, thought it is doubtful
if any parent in old-fashioned France has been compelled to
take quite so long a step. The rainy season continued, making
outdoor petting parties uncomfortable, so whenever he was
commanded, Bunny would stay in Eunice’s home, and it was all
quite domestic and regular according to advanced modern
standards. In fact, there was only one small detail left, and
Bunny suggested that: “Eunice, why shouldn’t we go and get
married, and have it over with?”</p>

<p class="pindent">He was surprised by the vehemence of the girl’s reaction.
“Oh, Bunny, we’re having such a happy time, and why do you
want to ruin it?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But why would that ruin it?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“All married people are miserable. I know, because I’ve
watched them. Mamma and Papa would give a million dollars—well,
maybe not that much but certainly a couple of hundred
thousand, if they could get loose without having to go
through all the fuss in the courts, and the horrid things the
newspapers would publish, and their pictures and all.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But we won’t have to do that, dear.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“How do you know we mightn’t? If we got married, you’d
think you had a right to me, and then you wouldn’t do what
I say any more, and I wouldn’t be happy. Oh, let’s do our
own way, and not what other people try to make us. All my
life other people have been making me do things, and I’ve been
fighting them—even you, Bunny-bear.” She had a score of
such appellatives for him, because, as you can understand, his
name was adapted to petting-party uses; they were dancing a
contrivance known as the Bunny-hug, and he heard a lot about
that.</p>

<p class="pindent">You went about in this prosperous and fashionable society,
and on the surface everything was decorous and proper, fitting
the marital formulas laid down in the laws and preached in
the churches. But when you got under the surface—anywhere,
high or low—what you found was that human beings, finding
themselves unhappy, had come to private understandings. Husbands
and wives set one another free, they made exchanges of
partners, they brought friends into their homes, who were in
reality substitute husbands or wives; there were companions
and secretaries and governesses and cousins who played such
roles—and when the children found it out, they were in position
to put pressure on their parents, a kind of informal family
blackmail, good for motor-cars and fur-coats and strings of
pearls, and most precious of all, the right to have your own way.</p>

<h3>VIII</h3>

<p class="pindent">Early in the year, while America was getting into the war,
the people of Russia had overthrown their Tsar and set up a
republic. That had pleased most people in America; it was
much pleasanter to be allied with a republic. But now, in the
fall, came a terrifying event; there was another revolution,
this time not made by respectable scholars and business men,
but by wild-eyed fanatics called “Bolshevikis,” who proceeded
to confiscate property and smash things up. At once it became
apparent what a calamity this was going to mean for the allies;
Russia was going to desert them, and the mass of the Germans
on the East would be set free to be hurled against the half-exhausted
Western front. Already the Russian armies were
going to pieces, the soldiers were deserting wholesale and
swarming back to the cities or to their villages; at the same time
the leaders of the new government were starting a world-wide
propaganda attacking the allies and their war-aims.</p>

<p class="pindent">Who were these leaders? It was enough for America to
note that a horde of them, who had been hiding in Switzerland,
were loaded into a sealed train by the German government and
escorted across Germany and dumped into Russia to make all
the trouble they could. That meant Lenin and his crowd were
hired agents of the Hun; when they proceeded to attack what
they called “allied imperialism,” that was the Kaiser’s voice
speaking Russian, and when they published the secret treaties
of the allies, taken from the archives of the Tsar, the newspapers
in America dismissed the documents as obvious forgeries.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad, as a good American, believed his newspapers. He
considered that this “Bolsheviki revolution” was the most terrible
event that had happened in the world in his life-time; his
face would grow pale as he talked to Bunny about it. America
could get no army to France until next spring, and perhaps
not till fall, and meantime the Germans had a million men they
could move, only a few hundred miles across their country to
the West front; they were jist a-goin’ to roll over the British
and French, and take Paris, and perhaps the whole of France,
and we should have the job of driving them out again. The
whole burden of the war now fell onto America’s shoulders,
and it would last years and years—neither Dad nor Bunny
might live to see the end of it.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad would read paragraphs out of the papers, details of the
horrors that were happening in Russia—literally millions of
people slaughtered, all the educated and enlightened ones; the
most hideous tortures inflicted, such obscenities as you could not
put into print. Before long they began applying their Communist
theories to the women of the country, who were “nationalized”
and made into public property by official decree; the
“commissars” were raping them wholesale. Lenin was killing
Trotsky, and Trotsky was throwing Lenin into jail. It was
a boiling up from the bottom of the social pit, such savagery
as we had hardly dreamed existing in human nature. Bunny
could see now the folly of that “idealism” he had been prattling,
his idea of letting strikers have their way, and turning industry
over to the mob. Here was the thing tried out in practice, and
how did he like it? Bunny had to admit that he didn’t like it
so well, and he was crushed and sobered.</p>

<p class="pindent">The problem came home to him, because he had to decide
as to his own duty in this world crisis. This was his last year
in school; then he would be old enough for the draft, and what
was he going to do? He and his father talked it out in a
solemn conference. Dad thought that he had responsibilities
enough to entitle him to the help of one son; he didn’t think
he would be a slacker if he were to get Mr. Carey to release
Bunny for service in the oil industry. But Bunny insisted that
he must go to the front; he even talked of quitting school at
once and enlisting, as a number of other boys had done. They
finally agreed to compromise, waiting till Bunny was through
school, and then see how matters shaped up. But meantime
Bunny owed this much to his country, as well as to himself—he
should give more time to his studies, and less to playing about.
If a young fellow really understood this world crisis, he would
surely stick to whatever work he was doing, and not throw
himself away in dissipations. Bunny flushed and let his eyes
fall, and said he guessed that was true, and he’d do better in
future.</p>

<h3>IX</h3>

<p class="pindent">He went to Eunice in his mood of high seriousness, to
explain how the burden of the task of saving civilization had
fallen upon their shoulders. She told him yes, she had been
realizing it, she had just been getting a serious talk from her
mother, who had explained that there was going to be a shortage
of food and all kinds of materials, as a result of the war
and the needs of our allies. The club-ladies had decided upon
their duty—they would purchase only the most expensive kinds
of food, so as to leave the lard and cabbage and potatoes for
the poor; Mrs. Hoyt had given away all her clothing to the
Salvation army, and spent a small fortune buying a complete
outfit of the most costly things she could find. Eunice was of
course quite willing to use only luxuries, but found it a little
puzzling, because her Aunt Alice took just the opposite view,
and had bought herself a lot of cheap things, in order to set
an example to the working-classes. Which did Bunny think
was right?</p>

<p class="pindent">But this sober mood did not last long with Eunice. A
couple of days later she was invited to a Belgian orphans’ ball,
and when Bunny insisted that he had to study, she threatened
to go with Billy Chalmers, the handsome captain of last year’s
football team—there was no team this year. Bunny said all
right, and so Eunice flaunted Billy in front of the whole school,
and there were rumors that he was parking his car with her,
and that Bunny’s nose was out of joint. This went on for a
week or two, until Bunny’s heart-ache was more than he could
stand. It was a Saturday night—and Dad had granted that
it wouldn’t be wrong to go to one dance a week; so he phoned
Eunice, and they “made it up” with tears and wild gusts of
passion, and she declared that she had never really really loved
anyone but her Bunny-bear, and how could he have been so
wicked as to refuse to please her?</p>

<p class="pindent">But then came Christmas, and the shrewd and persistent
Dad arranged a series of temptations—a big turkey, and Ruth
to cook it, and two new wells coming in, to say nothing of the
quail calling over the hills at sunset. Bunny promised, and
simply had to go; and Eunice had the most terrible of all her
tantrums, she grabbed Bunny by the hair and pulled him about
her mother’s drawing-room, with her mother standing helpless
by; she vowed that Bunny was a four-flusher, and a wretch,
and she would ring up Billy Chalmers, and they would go off
on a joy-ride that very night, and not come back till the Christmas
holidays were over and maybe not then.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny went to Paradise, and studied the new wells, and
the drawings for the new pipe-lines, and the “set-up” of the
proposed refinery; he wandered over the hills with Dad and
shot quail, and at night he lay in his lonely bed and writhed in
misery. It seemed to him that he was turning into an old man—surely
he would find all his hair grey in the morning! He
was losing more sleep than if he had taken Eunice to the
dances, and what was the sense of that? At school they were
teaching him biology and nineteenth century English poets, and
how was that going to help drive the Germans out of France?
Eunice was so fragile, so beautiful, and she was going to be
so unhappy! She was different from other girls, difficult to
understand, and the next fellow would not be so good to her
as Bunny had been! Also, the world that was trying to tear
them apart was the same blind and stupid world that was killing
millions of people; maybe Grandma was right after all, the
whole thing was a chaos of cruelty, and it didn’t matter what
you did, or which side won.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then in the morning there would be Dad, and the day’s
grinding of their tremendous big machine. Dad at least was
dependable, Dad had something he was sure of. Also, he
seemed to know all about Bunny without being told, he was
gentle and sympathetic in a tactful way, not saying a word, but
trying to entertain Bunny, and find things they could do
together. Come to think of it, Dad had been through things
like this himself! It would have been interesting to talk straight
with him—only it would have embarrassed him so. Bunny
thought of his “little Mamma,” whom he had not seen for more
than a year; she had gone to New York, and Bunny suspected
that Dad had increased her allowance on condition that she
would stay there. Bunny wished that he might talk with her
about Eunice, and get her opinion on the subject of exchangeable
lovers.</p>

<p class="pindent">He stuck it out, and when he went back home, he did not
go to see Eunice. Whenever he met her, his heart would give
a jump that hurt, but he would turn the other way and walk
a few miles to get over it. The news spread among the “Zulus”
that the pair had broken for good, and several sprightly young
ladies began making overtures to the young oil prince. But
Bunny hardly saw them, his heart was dead within him, he told
himself that he would never look at another girl. One of the
nineteenth century poets was Byron, and in his romances
Bunny found exactly the mood of aristocratic broken-heartedness
to which he could respond. As for Eunice, she went on
petting parties with her former football captain, and apparently
managed to escape every one of the calamities which Bunny
had feared for her.</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER IX<br /> <span class="sub-head">THE VICTORY</span></h1></div>

<h3>I</h3>

<p class="pindent">The first term of Bunny’s school ended in February, and he
passed his examinations with reasonable success; then there
was a brief holiday, and Dad produced a wonderful scheme.
He could not help feeling a little uncomfortable, with the Watkins
family living right there on the tract, and he taking millions
of dollars out of the ground for which he had paid them
thirty-seven hundred. Dad had an impulse to do something,
yet he was afraid to do too much, for fear he might “spoil”
them, giving them the notion he owed them more. What he
proposed was a family excursion; he would take Bunny and
Ruth and Meelie and Sadie in the big limousine, and hire an
extra car for old Mr. Watkins and his wife, and drive to the
cantonment where Paul was working, and pay him a visit and
see the new army in the making. They would stay a couple
of days at some hotel nearby, and see all the sights, including
the revival meetings which Eli was holding in a huge tent near
the encampment.</p>

<p class="pindent">The girls of course were wild with happiness. It was the
first time they had ever had a long automobile trip in the whole
of their unsophisticated lives. Bunny spoke to Ruth, who
spoke to her mother, who in turn spoke to her husband, and
obtained his promise that he would do his best to persuade the
Holy Spirit not to send them any revelations or inspire any
rolling or talking in tongues until they had got to the camp-meeting.
As a matter of fact, the Holy Spirit had recently
declared, through Eli as prophet of the Third Revelation, that
these inspirational gymnastics had served their purpose and
were to be dropped. No reason was vouchsafed, but there
were rumors that the well-to-do people who were backing Eli
in his evangelical campaigns were opposed to the rolling, and
did not regard the speech of the archangels as having any
meaning for mortal ears. One of these disciples was an eminent
judge, and another was a proprietor of chain grocery-stores;
their wives had taken Eli in hand and rubbed off the
rough spots and improved his grammar, explaining that because
one said heathen, one did not necessarily say healen; also
they had taught him where to get his clothes and how to hold
a knife and fork, so that Eli was becoming a social success.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was almost like going to see the war: this tremendous
city of canvas and corrugated iron and redwood siding which
had arisen as if by Arabian Nights magic, swarming with eager
young men in khaki, all of them as busy as ants—yet never too
busy to take note of the presence of three good-looking girls
in a row! You could go through this city at certain hours, if
you got the proper permit, and see a bit of the drilling; at
certain other hours Paul could get off, and while the old folks
and the girls went to hear Eli, Dad and Bunny and Paul sat
on the hotel veranda and talked about the state of the
world.</p>

<p class="pindent">The Russians had just concluded a peace with Germany,
withdrawing entirely from the war, and giving up a lot of
territory to the enemy. Dad discussed this event, and repeated
his opinion of the treacherous “Bolshevikis.” Then Paul said
how it seemed to him; Bunny saw that even here, with all
the work he had to do, Paul had found time to read and to think
his own thoughts. “Bunny,” he said, “do you remember our
oil strike, and what we read about it in the papers? Suppose
you had never been to Paradise, and didn’t know the strikers,
but had got all your impressions from the Angel City newspapers!
Well, that’s the way it seems to me about Russia;
this is the biggest strike in history, and the strikers have won,
and seized the oil wells. Some day maybe we’ll know what
they’re doing, but it won’t be from newspaper stories made up
by the allied diplomats and the exiled grand dukes.”</p>

<p class="pindent">That made Dad rather warm, because he had been reading
this news for three or four months, and believing every word
of it. He wanted to know if Paul didn’t believe there had been
any killing of the rich classes in Russia. Paul said he didn’t
doubt there had been some, because he had read about the
French revolution. What you had to remember was the way
the Russian people had been treated by their ruling classes, and
the kind of government they were used to; you had to judge
their revolution by their standards and not by ours. Paul
smiled and added that it was a mistake for an American employer
who had tried to give his men a square deal, to identify
himself with those masters in Russia who had beaten their men
with knouts, and turned them over to the Cossacks if they
attempted any protest.</p>

<p class="pindent">That pacified Dad a little, but he said the way it seemed
to him, these Bolshevikis were jist so many German agents.
He told about the train that had carried Lenin—Dad called him
Lee-nyne—through Germany. But Paul asked whether he had
watched the news that had come from the peace negotiations;
the Germans had apparently been as much afraid of the Russians
as we were. These Bolsheviks were fighting the ruling
classes of both sides, and the Germans might find the peace they
had made more dangerous to them than the fighting; the revolutionary
propaganda might spread in their armies, and even
to the Western front.</p>

<p class="pindent">There was no use expecting Dad to see anything so complicated
as that. He declared that if the Russians had really
wanted to help the cause of peace and justice, they should have
stood by the allies until the Kaiser was put out of business.
Then Paul asked whether Mr. Ross had read the secret treaties
of the allies, and Dad was obliged to confess that he had never
even heard of them. Paul explained how the Soviets, after
demanding that the allies should make known their war aims,
and having no attention paid to the request, had revealed to
the world all the secret agreements which the allies had made
with the Tsar, for dividing up the territories they meant to
take from the Germans and Austrians and Turks. Paul
declared that the text of these treaties, the most important
news of the day, had been suppressed by the American newspapers.
If we were going into this war blindfolded, to help
Great Britain and France and Italy and Japan in their imperialist
aims, then our people were being deceived, and some day
they would have a bitter awakening.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad’s answer to that was simple: Paul might rest assured,
those secret treaties would turn out to be Bolshevik forgeries.
Had not our government already given out a lot of documents
it had obtained in Russia, proving the Bolshevik leaders to be
German agents? Those were the true documents, and Paul
would find it out some day, and be ashamed of having doubted
our allies. How could he suppose that President Wilson would
let us be jockeyed?</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny sat, taking in every word of this discussion. It was
puzzling, and hard to be sure about, but it seemed to him that
Dad was right, what could a good American do, in war-time
like this, but trust his government? Bunny was a little shocked
to hear a man wearing the uniform of the army sit there and
express doubts about his superiors, and he considered it his
duty to get Paul off by himself, and tell him some of the things
the four minute men had said in school, and try to inspire him
with a more intense patriotism. But Paul only laughed, and
patted Bunny on the back, saying that they got any quantity
of propaganda here in the training-camp.</p>

<h3>II</h3>

<p class="pindent">One evening they all went to hear Eli; in a great tent
such as would hold a three ring circus, with thousands of cars
parked in the fields about, and sawdust strewn in the aisles,
and hundreds of wooden benches, crowded with soldier boys
and ranchers and their wives and children. There was a platform
with the evangelist, wearing a white robe with a golden
star on his bosom, for all the world like some Persian magus;
and there was a “silver band,” with trumpets and bass-tubas
gleaming so that they put your eyes out. When those big
blarers started a hymn of glory, and the audience started to
rock and shout, “Praise the Lord!” the top of that tent would
bulge up!</p>

<p class="pindent">Eli preached against the Hun, telling how the Holy Spirit
had revealed to him that the enemy was to be routed before
the year was by, and promising eternal salvation to all who
died in this cause of the Lord—provided, of course, that they
had not rejected their chance to be saved by Eli. In the middle
of the stage was a tank constructed, with steps descending into
it, and the converts sitting in rows on the platform, garbed
in white nighties; when that stage of the ceremonies arrived,
Eli descended into the water himself, and grabbed his victims
one by one by the backs of their necks, and in the name of the
Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost he swung them forward,
souse! into the water. Thereby their sins were washed
from the very last hair of their bodies, and if from the holy
water they contracted any of those diseases which are the
penalty of sins, even among military crusaders—well, all they
had to do was to come back again and have themselves “healen”
by the prophet of the Third Revelation.</p>

<p class="pindent">Next day the family drove home, and how much they had
to gossip about on the way, and for weeks thereafter! Bunny
was looking forward to living this camp-life the coming summer—except
that, because of the preparation he was getting in
school, and also because of Dad’s influence, he was to be in an
officer’s training-camp. He was full of consecration, and working
harder than ever at his duties.</p>

<p class="pindent">Late in March began that long-dreaded onslaught on the
Western front; one of those battles to which the world had
grown accustomed, extending over a hundred miles of front,
and lasting all day and all night for several weeks. Such a
battle was not named from a town or a city, but from a province;
this was the battle of Picardy. The German rush broke
through the British line, and drove them back in rout for
thirty or forty miles, and captured a hundred thousand
men, and it seemed that Dad’s worst forebodings were to be
realized.</p>

<p class="pindent">But neither the Germans nor the allies knew that in an
obscure village amid the fruit orchards of California a mighty
prophet was exercising his magic on their behalf. It chanced
that Eli Watkins read a news item from the front, declaring
that the only thing which could save the British armies was
rain; and forthwith he assembled his hosts of prayer, and all
night long they rocked upon their knees and wrung their hands
unto the Lord, invoking storms in Picardy; and the Lord heard
them, and the floodgates of heaven were opened, and the rain
descended, and the feet of the Huns were stuck fast, yea, and
their chariot wheels also, and their mighty men at arms were
drowned in mud; but on the side where the hosts of the Lord
were battling there fell no rain, but the ground was clean, and
reinforcements came up, and the British line was saved, and
back amid the California orchards the hosannas of the faithful
shook the blossoms off the prune-trees.</p>

<h3>III</h3>

<p class="pindent">Even amid such agonies and thrills, Bunny, being young, had
his personal life. On his way home after drill he ran into Nina
Goodrich, one of his class-mates, turning a corner in her car,
clad in a bathing suit with a cape over it. Upon such little
things do one’s life-destinies depend! She slowed up and
called, “Come have a swim with me!” He hopped in, and she
whisked him down to the beach in two minutes, and in five
more he had hired a bathing suit and got into it, and the two
of them were running a race along the sand.</p>

<p class="pindent">Nina Goodrich was one of those lavish Junos, of whom
California brings to ripeness many thousands every year. Her
limbs were strong trunks, and her hips were built for carrying
a dozen babies, and her bosom for the nourishing of them. She
had fair hair and a complexion that had not come out of a
bottle, and her skin was bronzed by hours in the surf, in those
fragile one-piece bathing suits the girls were wearing, which
revealed considerably more than fifty percent of their natural
charms. Never could a man who took himself a wife in
Southern California complain that he did not know what he
was getting!</p>

<p class="pindent">The two swam down the shore, a long way, not troubled
by the chill of the water; they ran hand in hand on the beach,
and as they went back to the bath-house, Nina said, “Come have
supper with me, Bunny; I’m tired of home,” So Bunny
slipped into his clothes, and she drove him back to her home,
and while she changed he sat in the car and got up his next
lesson in nineteenth century English poetry. The poet called
attention to a chain of natural phenomena:</p>


          <div class="poetry-container" style="">
          <div class="lgp"> <!-- rend=';' -->
<div class="stanza-outer">
<p class="line0">The sunlight clasps the earth</p>
<p class="line0">  And the moonbeams kiss the sea!</p>
<p class="line0">What are all these kissings worth,</p>
<p class="line0">  If thou kiss not me?</p>
</div>
</div></div> <!-- end poetry block --><!-- end rend -->

<p class="pindent">They drove to a cafeteria, an invention where California
fish and California fruits and California salads are spread out
before the eyes in such profusion as to trouble a nineteen year
old Juno already struggling to “reduce.” There was nothing
so safe as celery, said Nina, it took both space and time; while
she munched, they sat by the window, and watched the sun set
over the purple ocean, and the slow fog steal in from the sea.
Then they got into the car, and without saying a word she
drove out of town and down the coast highway; one of her
hands was in Bunny’s, and he, searching the caverns of his
memory, remembered having heard Eunice mention that Nina
had had a desperate affair with Barney Lee, who had enlisted
a year ago, and was now in France.</p>

<p class="pindent">They stopped at a lonely place, and there was a rug in the
car, and pretty soon they were sitting by the noisy surf, and
Nina was snuggled close to Bunny and whispering, “Do you
care for me the least little bit?” And when he answered that
he did, she said, “Then why don’t you pet me?” And when
he began to oblige her, he found his lips held in one of those
long slow kisses which are sure-fire hits on the silver screen,
but which the censors cut to a footage varying according to
geography—00 in Japan up to 8,000 in Algeria and the Argentine.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was evident that this nineteen year old Juno was his to
do what he pleased with, there and then; and Bunny’s head
had begun to swim in the familiar alarming way. He had
never got the ache of Eunice out of his soul, and here at last
was deliverance! But he hesitated, because he had sworn to
himself that he would not get in for this again. Also from
some of the English poets he had begun to hear about a different
kind of love. He knew that he didn’t really love Nina
Goodrich, she was all but a stranger to him; so he hesitated,
and his kisses diminished in ardor, until she whispered, “What’s
the matter, Bunny?”</p>

<p class="pindent">He was rattled, but a sudden inspiration came to him.
“Nina,” he said, “it doesn’t seem quite fair.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Why not?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“To Barney.”</p>

<p class="pindent">He felt her wince as she lay in his arms. “But Barney is
gone, dear.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I know; but he’ll come back.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, but that’s so far off; and I guess he’s got a girl in
France by now.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Maybe so, but you can’t be sure; and it don’t seem quite
right that a fellow should go risk his life for his country, and
somebody else steal his girl away while he’s gone.”</p>

<p class="pindent">So Bunny began to talk about the front, and what was happening
there, and how soon the Americans would get in, and
how he expected to go right after graduation, and about Paul
and what he thought about Russia, and what Dad thought about
Paul; and the young Juno continued to be in his arms, but with
a more and more sisterly affection, until at last the fog began
to chill even their young blood, and they got up to go, and the
nineteen year old Juno put her arms about her escort and gave
him an especially violent kiss, declaring, “Bunny, you’re a
queer fellow, but I like you an awful lot!”</p>

<h3>IV</h3>

<p class="pindent">The Germans made another gigantic thrust at the British,
and this time it was the Battle of Flanders. They captured a
great stretch of the British lines, and if it had not been for a
six day stand of laborers and chauffeurs and what not behind
the lines, every man hiding in a hole and fighting for himself
with any weapon he could pick up, the Germans would have
taken the whole railway system in Flanders. A month or so
later came another offensive, this time to the South, against
the French, the battle of the Aisne and the Oise; it looked as
if Paris was doomed, and people in America held their breath
while they read the bulletins in the newspapers.</p>

<p class="pindent">In the midst of that battle, covering nearly two hundred
miles of front, an epoch-making thing happened; the hard-pressed
French commander put in the first of the newly-arrived
American troops. These boys had had only a few months
training, and the French didn’t think they would hold; but
instead of giving way like the rest of the armies, they hit the
German line and went forward a couple of miles over a three
mile front. So more of them were rushed in, and a few days
later came the battle of Belleau Wood, and all over America
went a thrill of exultation. It was not national pride, but more
than that, men felt—it was a victory of free institutions. When
you ran over the lists of dead and wounded in these battles you
found Horowitz and Schnierow and Samerjian and Samaniego,
Constantinopulos and Toplitsky and Quong Ling; but they all
fought alike, and it was a victory for that golden flood of eloquence
that was being poured out from the White House.</p>

<p class="pindent">In the midst of these excitements came Bunny’s commencement
time, and he had to make the great decision. He and
his father had the most serious talk of their lives; Bunny had
never seen the old man so deeply moved. What he said was,
“Son, can’t you possibly see your way to stay and help me with
this job?” What Bunny answered was, “Dad, if I didn’t get
into the army, I’d never feel right the rest of my life.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad pointed out what it was going to mean to him personally.
He was no longer able to carry this load alone. There
had to be more and more wells, and every one was an added
care. They simply had to have a big refinery, and that meant
also, a chain of service stations, you could not count on government
contracts forever. This Paradise tract was Bunny’s,
but if he wanted to give it up, why then Dad would have to
negotiate with some of the big people who had been sounding
him out on the question of mergers. If Bunny went into the
army there would be no use counting on him, because Dad was
sure this war wasn’t half over. “Those that go now aren’t
many of them coming back,” was the way he put it; there was
a catch in his voice, and with a little bit more they would have
had to pull out their pocket-handkerchiefs, which would have
been equally embarrassing to both. All that Bunny could do
was to repeat, “I’ve just got to go, Dad; I’ve just got to go.”</p>

<p class="pindent">So Dad gave up, and a couple of weeks later Bunny got his
notice to report to his training-camp. Aunt Emma spilled tears
over him, while Grandma drew her withered old lips tight over
her badly-fitting false teeth, and said it was a crime, and it
ended her interest in life. Bertie made arrangements for a
farewell party, and Dad reported that he had opened negotiations
with Vernon Roscoe, the biggest independent oil operator
on the coast, president of Flora-Mex and Mid-Central Pete,
who had several times broached the project of a vast enterprise
to be known as “Ross Consolidated.”</p>

<h3>V</h3>

<p class="pindent">They drove up to Paradise, to give Bunny a farewell look
at things, and there they found that Paul was expected home
for a furlough, preliminary to a journey across the Pacific
Ocean. This war, Dad said, was like a fire in a “tank-farm,”
you could never tell which way things would explode, or what
would go next. Here was Paul, with the bunch of carpenters
he directed, ordered onto a transport to be shipped—of all
places in the world—to Vladivostok in Siberia!</p>

<p class="pindent">It appeared that when the Bolsheviks took charge of Russia
they found themselves with a great army of war prisoners,
among them a hundred thousand Czecho-Slovaks. This was
a new name—you looked it up in the encyclopedias and couldn’t
find it, and had to have it explained to you that they were
Bohemians, but this was a German word, and just as we had
changed hamburger into liberty steak and sauerkraut into liberty
cabbage, so the Bohemians became Czecho-Slovaks, which
nobody knew how to spell when they heard it, or to pronounce
when they saw it. The people of this race were revolting
against Germany, and the Bolsheviks had agreed that their
Czecho-Slovak prisoners would be shipped to Vladivostok,
where the allies might take charge of them, and bring them to
the fighting front if they saw fit. But on the way across Siberia
the Czecho-Slovaks got to fighting with the Bolsheviks and the
released German war prisoners, and had seized a great section
of the railroad.</p>

<p class="pindent">So now into this weird mix-up the allies were intervening.
The newspapers explained the matter: the Bolshevik movement
was an uprising of fanatics, imposed upon the Russian
people by the guns of hired mercenaries, Chinese and Mongolians
and Cossacks and escaped criminals and general riff-raff;
it couldn’t last very long, a few weeks or months at the
most, and what was needed was to supply a nucleus about
which the decent Russians might rally. The allies were now
undertaking to do that; American and Japanese troops were
to help the Czecho-Slovaks in Siberia, and American and
British troops were to organize the Russian refugees at Archangel
in the far north. So here was Paul, going to build
barracks and Y. M. C. A. huts along the famous Trans-Siberian
railway, and see for himself those exciting events about which
he had been debating with Dad. Bunny was going to a training-camp,
and maybe when he got through they would send
him to the same front—that was a case where he would let Dad
use his influence! Bunny meant to work hard and rise in the
service, and maybe he would have Paul and his carpenters
under his command!</p>

<p class="pindent">They had a hard time keeping their spirits up, because of
Ruth, who was utterly inconsolable. She would go about the
place with tears running down her cheeks, and now and then
would have to jump up and rush from the room. When the
time came for Paul to say his last farewell, Ruth almost went
out of her mind; she locked her arms about his neck, and he
had to pull her fingers away. It was sad for a fellow, to be
driven away with his sister lying in a faint in a chair. Old Mr.
Watkins had to come up and take her home, and send up
Sadie to do the housework for Dad. By golly, it made you
realize about war!</p>

<h3>VI</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny went back to Beach City, to face a trial of the same
sort. Grandma did not cry out or faint, she just went up to
her studio-room and locked the door and did not appear, even
for meals. When Bunny was ready to go, he went and knocked
on the door, and Grandma let him into her laboratory of paints
and oils and high art. Her face was drawn but grim, and only
her withered red eyelids gave her away. “Little boy,” she said—he
was still that to her, he would never grow up—“little boy,
you are a victim of the old men’s crimes. That means nothing
to you now, but remember it, and some day, long after I’m
gone, you’ll understand.”</p>

<p class="pindent">She kissed him without a sound, and he stole out, with
tears running down his cheeks, and feeling somehow as if he
himself were committing a crime. He felt still more that way
when, a week later, he received a telegram saying that Grandmother
Ross had been found dead in bed. He got a three day
leave to come home and attend the funeral, and had to say his
good-byes to the rest of the family all over again.</p>

<p class="pindent">The training-camp was located in the South, a place of
blazing sunshine and vigorous perspiration. It was crowded
with boys from every part of the state, mostly high school and
college fellows, with a sprinkling of others who had got into
the officer class by having military experience. The sons of
grape-growers and orange and walnut and peach and prune
growers, of cowmen and lumbermen, and business and professional
men in the cities—Bunny wanted to know what they
were like, and what they thought about life and love and the
war. He drilled until his back ached, and he studied, much
the same as at school; but he lived in a tent, and ate ravenously,
and grew in all directions.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now and then he would explore the country with a companion,
but keeping himself out of the sex adventures that
occupied most of the army’s free time. Here was a place
where no bones were made about plain talk; your superiors
took it for granted that when you went out of the camp you
went to look for a woman, and they told you what to do when
you came back, and had a treatment-station where you lined
up with the other fellows and made jokes about where you had
been and what it had cost you. Bunny knew enough to realize
that the women in the neighborhood of this camp who were
open to adventures must be pretty well debauched after a year,
so he had little interest in their glances or the trim silk-stockinged
ankles they displayed.</p>

<p class="pindent">He had made application for the artillery, but they assigned
him to study “military transportation,” because of his knowledge
of oil. He took this quite innocently, never realizing that
Dad with his wide-spreading influence might have put in a
word. Dad was quietly determined that Bunny was not going
across the sea, no, not if this man’s war lasted another ten
years. Bunny was going to be among those who had charge
of the army’s supplies of gasoline and oil, seeing that the various
products were up to standard and were efficiently and
promptly shipped. Who could say—perhaps he might be among
those who would have the job of working out contracts, and
might be able now and then to put in a good word for Ross
Consolidated!</p>

<h3>VII</h3>

<p class="pindent">The new deal was going through, and Dad wrote long
letters telling of the progress—letters which Bunny was to
return when he had studied them, and not leave lying
about in a tent. Also there were rumors in the papers, and
then more detailed accounts, designed to prepare the public
for the launching of a huge enterprise. Late in the summer
Bunny got a furlough, and came home to get the latest news.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Home” no longer meant Beach City; for Dad had only
been waiting till Bunny had got through with school, and now
he had moved to another house. It was a palace in the fashionable
part of Angel City, which he had leased through a real
estate agent for fifteen thousand a year. It was all pink stucco
outside, with hedge plants trimmed to the shape of bells and
balls like pawn-broker’s signs. It had a wide veranda with
swings hanging by brass chains, and ferns planted in a row
of huge sea shells, and big plate glass windows that did not
come open. Inside was furniture of a style called “mission
oak,” so heavy that you could hardly move it, but that was all
right, because Dad didn’t want to move it, he would sit in any
chair, wherever it happened to be, and the only place he
expected comfort was in his den, where he had a huge old
leather chair of his own, and a store of cigars and a map of
the Paradise tract covering one whole wall. One thing more
Dad had seen to, that Grandma’s biggest paintings were hung
in the dining-room, including the scandalous one of the Germans
with their steins! The rest of the old lady’s stuff, her
easel and paints and a great stack of her lesser works, were
boxed and stowed in the basement. Aunt Emma was now the
mistress of the household, with Bertie as head critic when she
was home.</p>

<p class="pindent">On the desk in Dad’s den was piled a stack of papers a foot
high, relating to the new enterprise. He went over them one
by one and explained the details. Ross Consolidated was going
to be a seventy million dollar corporation, and Dad was to have
ten millions in bonds and preferred stock, and another ten millions
of common stock. Mr. Roscoe was to get the same for
his Prospect Hill properties and those at Lobos River, and the
various bankers were to get five millions for their financing of
the project. The balance was to be a special class stock, twenty-five
millions to be offered to the public, to finance the new
development—one of the biggest refineries in the state, and
storage tanks, and new pipe-lines, and a whole chain of service
stations throughout Southern California. This stock was to
be “non-voting,” a wonderful new scheme which Dad explained
to Bunny; the public was to put up its money and get a share
of the profits, but have nothing to say as to how the company
was run. “We’ll have no bunch of boobs butting in on our
affairs,” said Dad; “and nobody can raid us on the market and
take away control.”</p>

<p class="pindent">A little farther on in the explanations, Bunny began to see
the meaning of that perpetual and unbreakable hold which Dad
and Mr. Roscoe were giving to themselves. In the prospectuses
and advertisements of Ross Consolidated, the public
would be told all about the vast oil resources in the Ross Junior
tract at Paradise; but here it was being fixed up that Ross
Consolidated was not to operate this tract, but to lease it to a
special concern, the Ross Junior Operating Company, and
nobody but Dad and Mr. Roscoe and the bankers were to have
any stock in that! There was a whole series of such intricate
devices, holding companies and leasing companies and separate
issues of stock, and some of these things were to go into effect
at once, and some later on, after the public had put up its
money!</p>

<p class="pindent">When Bunny, the “little idealist,” began to make objections
to this, he saw that he was hurting his father’s feelings. Dad
said that was the regular way of big money deals, and my God,
were they running a soup-kitchen? The public would get its
share and more—that stock would go to two hundred in the
first year, jist you watch and see! But it was Dad and his
son who had done the hard work on the Paradise tract, and at
Prospect Hill and Lobos River too; and the government
wanted them to go on and do more such work, to drill a hundred
new wells and help win the war, and how could they
do it if they distributed the money around for people to throw
away on jazz-parties? Jist look at those “war-babies,” and all
the mad spending in New York! Dad was taking care of his
money and using it wisely, in industry, where it belonged;
he was perfectly sincere, and hard set as concrete, in his conviction
that he was the one to whom the profits should come.
He and Mr. Roscoe were two individuals who had fought the
big companies and kept themselves afloat through all the
storms; they were making an unbreakable combination this
time, and they were going to get the jack out of it, just you
bet!</p>

<h3>VIII</h3>

<p class="pindent">Meantime, the Germans had begun another offensive against
the French, the most colossal yet; it was the second Battle of
the Marne, and they called it their “Friedensturm,” because
they meant to capture Paris and win their peace. But now
there were large sectors held by the American troops, of whom
there were a million in France, and three hundred thousand
coming every month, with all their supplies, in spite of the
submarines. These troops were fresh, while all the others
were exhausted; and so where they stood, the line did not
give way, and the great German offensive was blocked and
brought to a standstill.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then, a week or two later, began an event that electrified
the whole world; the allies began to advance! Attacking now
here, now there, they gained ground, they routed the enemy
out of intrenchments which had been years in building, and
were counted impregnable. All that mighty Hindenburg line
began to crumble; and behind it, the Siegfried line, and the
Hunding line, and all the other mythological constructions.
To people in America it was the breaking of the first sunrays
through black storm clouds. The “Yanks” were wiping out
the famous St. Mihiel salient, they were capturing the enemy
by tens of thousands, and even more important, the machine
guns and artillery which the Germans could not replace. All
through the early fall this went on; until the young officers-to-be
in Bunny’s training-camp began to fret because this
man’s war was going to be over before they got to the scene.</p>

<p class="pindent">But all this time, not one word from Paul! Bunny received
agonized letters from Ruth, “Oh, what do you think
can have happened to him? I write him every week to the
address he gave, and I <span class="it">know</span> he would answer if he was alive.”
Bunny explained that it took six weeks for mail to go to
Vladivostok and return; how much longer it took on the railroad
no one could guess; and besides, there was a censorship,
and many things might happen to letters in war-time. If Paul
had been killed or wounded, the army would surely notify his
parents; so no news was good news. There had been practically
no fighting, as Ruth could see from the newspaper clippings
which Bunny faithfully sent to her. The reports were
scanty, but that was just because nothing much had happened;
if there were any real fighting, or losses to the troops, the
papers would get it, you might be sure.</p>

<p class="pindent">In the month of July of this year of 1918, the American
and Japanese troops had made a landing in Vladivostok,
practically unopposed; they had spread along the Trans-Siberian
railway, and were policing it, and in fact running it,
all the way to Lake Baikal where they had met the Czecho-Slovaks.
With the help of these intelligent men, the allies
now controlled the country clean across to the Volga; the
Bolsheviks had to keep back in the interior. Now and then
the newspapers would report that admiral this or general that
was setting up a stable Russian government, of course with
the help of allied money and supplies. At the west end of the
line it would be a Cossack ataman and at the east end a Chinese
mandarin or Mongolian tuchun or other strange beast; thus
new stretches of the earth’s surface were being delivered from
the wickedness of Bolshevism. Somewhere amid these picturesque
and exciting events Paul Watkins of Paradise, California,
was building army barracks and “Y” huts; and some
day he would come back with a wonderful story to tell! So
Bunny wrote, bidding Ruth keep cheerful, and have faith in
the benevolence of her old Uncle Sam.</p>

<h3>IX</h3>

<p class="pindent">The nights were growing cold in Bunny’s cantonment, and
from Europe the thrilling news continued to pour in, and
spread across the front pages of the newspapers, six or eight
editions every day. The allied advance was turning into a
march, that long talked of march to Berlin! A march also
to Vienna and to Sofia and to Constantinople—for everywhere
the central powers were weakening, collapsing, surrendering.
President Wilson issued his “fourteen points,” on the basis of
which the Germans were invited to quit. There were rumors
of negotiations—the German leaders were suggesting a truce!
There were two or three days of suspense, and then the answer,
there would be no truce, only a surrender; the march to Berlin
was on!</p>

<p class="pindent">And then one day an amazing report; the enemy had
capitulated, the surrender had been signed! As a matter of
fact, it was a false alarm, due to the American custom of
keeping one jump ahead of events. Each paper wants to
beat the others, so they get everything ready in advance—speeches
that have not yet been delivered, ceremonies that
have not yet taken place. Some nervous reporter let his finger
slip on the trigger, and the message came that set all America
wild. Such a spectacle had never been witnessed since the
world began; every noisemaking instrument conceivable was
turned loose, and men, women and children turned out on the
streets, and danced and sang and yelled until they were exhausted;
pistols were shot off, and autos went flying by with
tin-cans bouncing behind; newsboys and stock-brokers wept
on one another’s shoulders, and elderly unapproachable bank-presidents
danced the can-can with typists and telephone girls.
A day or two later, when the real news came, they turned out
to do it all over again, but never could recapture their first
fine careless rapture.</p>

<p class="pindent">After that, of course, the fun had gone out of military
training; all the young officers-to-be wanted to get back home,
to go to college or to take up their jobs, and all who had any
influence quickly got furloughs that were understood to be
elastic. Such a favor came to Bunny, out of the blue void
where Dad wielded his mysterious power, and he went home
to watch the movements of “Ross Consolidated,” which had
been launched at an opening price of $108 per share for the
“class B stock,” and completely sold out in two days, and was
now quoted in the market at 147¾. They had made the stock
of “no par value”—another new device which Vernon Roscoe’s
fancy lawyers had recommended; there were certain taxes both
state and federal which could be dodged by this method, and
moreover there would never be need to issue “stock dividends”
to conceal the amount of the profit. Mr. Roscoe was certainly
a wizard when it came to finance, jist about the smartest
feller Dad had met in the oil-game.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was a tremendous load taken off Dad’s shoulders, for
now the enormous Roscoe machine would market the oil and
collect the money. Dad’s job was new developments—the
part of the game he really liked. He was a member of the
board of directors of the new concern, and also a vice-president,
at a salary of a hundred thousand a year, with charge of
exploring and drilling; he would travel here and there and
lay out the tracts and select the drilling sites, and see that every
well was brought in properly, before turning it over to another
executive, the superintendent of operation. It was Dad’s idea
that Bunny should take a position under his father, to start
with say six thousand a year, until everybody was satisfied
that he knew the business; the two of them would have the
time of their lives, driving all over Southern California and
smelling out oil, jist like at Paradise! Bunny said that sounded
good, but he’d want a little time to think it over and get used
to the idea that he wasn’t going to Siberia or to France. Dad
said all right, of course, he mustn’t jump into things in a hurry;
but Bunny could see that he was a little pained because his
son and namesake did not do that very thing!</p>

<h3>X</h3>

<p class="pindent">They went up to Paradise to see the developments; and
one of the first developments they saw was Ruth, who had
their lunch ready in the Rascum cabin. Bunny was shocked
by her appearance; she looked ten years older than when he
had seen her last, her face was pale, and her smile was forced.
She had given up all pretense of feminine charm, her hair
was drawn back tight and tied in a knot on top of her head,
and her skirts came to her ankles, which was half a leg longer
than the fashion. Ruth was just setting out to be an old maid,
said Meelie, and all on account of grieving her heart out about
Paul.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, I know he’s dead!” Ruth declared. “Just think, it’s
been five months since he went away, and don’t you know Paul
would have written me a lot of letters in that time?”</p>

<p class="pindent">It did seem strange; and Dad thought a bit and said, “Yes,
we’ve waited long enough, and now we’ll jist find out.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, Mr. Ross, how do you mean?” cried Ruth, clasping
her hands together.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, we ain’t lost that army altogether in Siberia, and I
guess there is some way to connect up with it.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Ruth had gone paler than ever. “Oh, I don’t know as I’d
dare find out! If I should hear he was dead—if I was really
to know it—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Look here, child,” said Dad, “the troubles you imagine is
always a lot worse than the real ones. I want to know about
my boss-carpenter, and I’m jist a-goin’ to!”</p>

<p class="pindent">So Dad went to the telephone, and called the hay and feed-store
of Mr. Jake Coffey in San Elido. “Hello, Jake. Yes,
we’re all fine here, how’s your old man? Say, I understand
you had the nominating—I fergit the feller’s name, but the
congressman from this district. Well, I never asked him a
favor, but I guess I got a right to one, seeing all I put up to
elect him. Well, now, you send him a telegram and tell him
to toddle over to the War Department and put in an inquiry
about the whereabouts and health of Paul Watkins. You got
a pencil there?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad turned to Ruth, “What is it now? Company B, Forty-seventh
California Regiment, American Expeditionary Forces
to Russia. I want the War Department to cable an inquiry
and have the reply cabled; you wire the congressman twenty-five
dollars to cover the cost, and if there’s anything left over
he can keep the change. I’ll mail you my check today. You
might explain, if you want to, a member of the family is ill,
and it’s a matter of life and death to get some word at once.
And I’ll be obliged, Jake, and if you need any gasoline for
your car, jist drop round after we git this new refinery a-goin’.
How’d you like that last dividend check from the company?
Ha, ha, ha! Well, so long.”</p>

<p class="pindent">For two days Ruth waited on tenter-hooks, holding her
breath every time the phone rang; and at last there was the
voice of Jake Coffey—Bunny answered, and he turned from
the receiver right quick, saying, “Telegram from Congressman
Leathers, the War Department reports that Paul is at Irkutsk
and well.” Ruth gave a cry—she was standing by the dining
table, and she grabbed at it and missed, and went swaying, and
Bunny had to drop the receiver and catch her. And there she
was, by golly, white and cold and senseless, they had to lay
her out on the floor and sprinkle water on her face. And
when she came to, all she could do was to cry and cry like a
baby. Presently Bunny remembered the telephone receiver
hanging, and went and apologized to Mr. Coffey and thanked
him, and it was all Bunny could do to keep his own voice
straight; the truth was, he and Dad had been more worried
about Paul than they were willing to admit.</p>

<p class="pindent">After Ruth was able to sit up and smile, Dad said, “Irkutsk,
where is that?” And the girl said at once, “It’s on Lake Baikal,
in the middle of Siberia.” Said Dad, “Hello, where did you
git your geography?” It turned out there was an old atlas
among Paul’s books, and Ruth had the Siberia part clean by
heart—the names of every station on the Trans-Siberian Railway—Omsk,
Tomsk, Tobolsk—Dad thought it was funny, and
made her say them off—by golly, if there had been a timetable
attached, she’d have known when the night-freight was
due at Vladivostok! She knew the physical geography of the
country, the races which inhabited it, the flora and fauna and
principal commercial interests, furs, lumber, wheat, dairy products.</p>

<p class="pindent">The only trouble was, her information was twenty years
out of date! So now, what was she going to do but take the
stage to Roseville that afternoon, and in the library she would
find a big new atlas, and maybe some books on the subject.
Bunny said he’d drive her; so he did, and they found an atlas
with a picture of Irkutsk, a public square with some buildings,
churches or mosques or whatever they were called, with round
domes going up to a point on top; there was snow on the
ground, and sledges with big high harness up over the horses’
necks. It was dreadful cold there, Ruth said, Paul wasn’t used
to such weather; but Bunny laughed and told her not to worry
about that, Paul would have plenty to wear, this was the best
taken care of army in history, and so long as they had the
railroad open, nobody would suffer.</p>

<p class="pindent">But that was not enough for Ruth, what she wanted was
for Paul to come home. Surely, now that the war was over,
he ought to be on the way! But Bunny said she’d have to make
up her mind to wait, because an armistice wasn’t the same as
a peace, there was a lot of negotiating to be done, and the army
would sit tight meantime. But when peace was declared, then
surely Paul would come back, because we certainly weren’t
going on running the Trans-Siberian Railway after the war
was over. Bunny said that with a laugh, meaning it to be
funny, and Ruth smiled, because it sounded funny to her; so
innocent they were of the intricacies of world diplomacy, these
two babes in the California woods!</p>

<h3>XI</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny spent a week hunting quail with Dad, or wandering
over the hills by himself, thinking things over. At last he sat
down to have it out. “Dad, I’m afraid you’re going to be
disappointed in me, but this is the truth—I want to go to
college.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“College! Gosh, son, what’s that for?” There was a look
of amazement on Dad’s face; but he was an old hypocrite, he
had known perfectly well that Bunny was thinking about college,
and he had thought about it a lot himself.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I just don’t feel I’ve got enough education, Dad.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What is it you want to know?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, that’s something you can’t say; you don’t know just
what you’ll get till you’ve got it. But I have a feeling, I want
to know more about things.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad looked forlorn—pitifully, but quite innocently and unintentionally.
“It means you jist ain’t interested in oil.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, no, Dad, that’s not quite fair. I can study for a
while and then come back to the business.”</p>

<p class="pindent">But Dad knew better than that. “No, son, if you go to
college, you’ll get so high up above us oil fellers, you won’t
know we’re here. If you mean to be an oil man, the thing to
study is oil.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, Dad, the truth is, I’m really too young to know what
I want to be. If I wanted to do something else, surely we’ve
got money enough—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’s not the money, son, it’s the job. You know how I
feel—I like to have you with me—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I don’t mean to go away,” Bunny hastened to put in.
“There’s plenty of colleges around here, and I can live at
home. And we can come up for week-ends and holidays, the
same as always. I’m not going to lose my interest in Paradise,
Dad, but I really won’t be happy to buckle down to business
until I’ve had a chance to learn more.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad had to give way to that. There was that curious war
in his own mind, a mingling of respect for knowledge, of awe
in the presence of cultured people, along with fear of “notions”
that Bunny might get, strange flights of “idealism” that would
make him unfit to be the heir and custodian of twenty million
dollars worth of Ross Consolidated!</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER X<br /> <span class="sub-head">THE UNIVERSITY</span></h1></div>

<h3>I</h3>

<p class="pindent">Southern Pacific University had been launched by a California
land baron as a Methodist Sunday-school; its professors
were all required to be Methodists, and it featured scores of
religious courses. It had grown enormous upon the money of
an oil king who had bribed half a dozen successive governments
in Mexico and the United States, and being therefore
in doubt as to the safety of his soul gave large sums to professional
soul-savers. Apparently uncertain which group had
the right “dope,” he gave equally to both Catholics and Protestants,
and they used the money to denounce and undermine
each other.</p>

<p class="pindent">If Dad had known that his son was to be educated by the
donations of Pete O’Reilly, he would have been at once amused
and reassured. Not knowing about it, he paid a visit to the
place, to see at least the outside of Bunny’s future environment.
The university had started far out in the suburbs of Angel
City, but now the community had grown around it—which
meant another large endowment, contributed by all the rent-payers
of the city. Its buildings were elaborate, which impressed
Dad; the fact that they were crowded with five thousand
young men and women impressed him still more, for
when Dad saw a great number of people doing the same thing,
he concluded it was something normal and safe.</p>

<p class="pindent">Still more reassuring was his meeting with President
Alonzo T. Cowper, D.D., Ph.D., LL.D. For Dr. Cowper was
in the business of interviewing dads; he had been selected by
his millionaire trustees because of his skill in interviewing
trustees. Dr. Cowper knew how a scholar could be at the
same time dignified and deferential. Our Dad, being
thoroughly money-conscious, read the doctor’s mind as completely
as if he had been inside it: if this founder of Ross Consolidated
is pleased with the education his son receives, he
may some day donate a building for teaching oil chemistry, or
at least endow a chair of research in oil geology. And that
seemed to Dad exactly the proper attitude for a clergyman-educator
to take; everybody in the world was in the business
of getting money, and this was a very high-toned way.</p>

<p class="pindent">Both Dad and Bunny took the university with the seriousness
it expected. Neither of them doubted that money which
had been gained by subsidizing political parties, and bribing
legislators and executive officials and judges and juries—that
such money could be turned at once into the highest type of
culture, wholesale, by executive order. Bunny plunged into
the excitements of courses and credits, he raced from English
5A to Spanish 2, and from there to Sociology 7 and Modern
History 14, and accumulated a stack of textbooks, and listened
to lectures, and wrote notes, and stowed in his mind a mass of
dates and other details.</p>

<p class="pindent">It took him a long time to realize that the “English” was
cruelly dull, and that the young man who taught it was bored
to tears by what he was doing; that the “Spanish” had a
French accent, and that the professor was secretly patronizing
bootleggers to console himself for having to live in what he
considered a land of barbarians; that the “Sociology” was an
elaborate structure of classifications, wholly artificial, devised
by learned gentlemen in search of something to be learned
about; and that the Modern History was taught from textbooks
which had undergone the scrutiny of thousands of sharp
eyes, in order to spare the sensibilities of Mr. Pete O’Reilly,
and avoid giving to any student the slightest hint concerning
the forces which control the modern world.</p>

<h3>II</h3>

<p class="pindent">With equal seriousness Bunny took the social life of this
enormous institution. It was the far-off wonderful goal to
which all high school students had looked; a few lucky ones
had got there, and he was among them. His sister’s chum had
a brother who was a senior, and belonged to the best possible
fraternity; so the word was spoken, and Bunny was snapped
up. They were a fast, free-spending crowd, aggressive, self-confident,
slangy, voluble over the prospects of this year’s track
team. Bunny was a runner, so they had a reason for welcoming
him that was more presentable than his old man’s oil.</p>

<p class="pindent">Like all Western universities, Southern Pacific was co-educational;
so Bunny was exposed to the impact of a mass of
femininity, the distilled and concentrated essence of allurement.
Such swarms of graceful figures, trim ankles, dimpled white
and brown arms, costumes the color of Brazilian butterflies;
a kaleidescope of smiles and flashing eyes, a perpetual zephyr
of soft scents, blown from lilac-bushes and jasmine vines and
miles upon miles of California orange and lemon-orchards.
Something was bound to happen to a young idealist in such
an environment—especially when he had just spent the summer
in a training-camp for men only!</p>

<p class="pindent">Not all these bundles of feminine charm were accustomed
to follow the market reports upon Ross Consolidated; yet
somehow they managed to learn about the discoverer and heir-apparent
of the Paradise oil field. Many sets of quick wits
were concentrated upon him, he was invited to scores of dances
and hundreds of fudge parties and thousands of motor-rides.
Then a strange rumor spread; here was an unimaginable phenomenon,
a young millionaire who would not “pet”! One by
one the champion spell-weavers of Southern Pacific wove in
vain; before long there were odds posted, and quite a trade
in bets as to who would be the first girl that Bunny Ross would
kiss! Researches were conducted in the Beach City High
School, and word came that the young oil prince carried in his
bosom a broken heart; which, of course, made him a romantic
figure, and added enormously to his prestige.</p>

<p class="pindent">These things go by contraries, and the girl who landed
Bunny did so because she did not try. The family of Henrietta
Ashleigh had had money for generations, and so could
afford to look down upon it, and all those who sought it. This
was the way to impress Bunny, who was aware that his money
was painfully new. Never would he attain to the aggressive
self-assurance of his sister; he was looking for something
better than himself, and for a while he found it in the Ashleighs,
with their perfect manners and well trained servants
and mansion full of the debris of culture.</p>

<p class="pindent">Henrietta was tall and slender, gentle, soft of voice, and
reserved to the point of primness. Her mother had just died,
and for a year she wore black, which of course was very conspicuous.
She was high church Episcopal, and on Sunday
mornings wore long kid gloves and carried a little prayer-book
and hymnal joined together, bound in black leather with a gold
border. She took Bunny to church and he learned that one
does not have to take ancient Hebrew mythology with vulgar
literalness, but may have its symbolic meaning explained by a
white-haired old gentleman with a trace of English accent.</p>

<p class="pindent">What Henrietta meant to Bunny was a refuge from the
anguish and tumult of illegitimate desire. He fled to her as
to a saint, a madonna alive and visible upon a college campus.
She was so far above the glaring crudeness of the smart set;
she did not use paint nor powder—nothing so common as perspiration
would presume to appear on her delicately chiseled
nose. You might dream of kissing her, but it would remain
a dream; she would call you “Mr. Ross” during the first six
months of your acquaintance, and after that she would call you
“Arnold,” finding it dignified, perhaps because of Matthew.
So long as you knew and truly appreciated her, you would
make the highest grades in class, and, as the little black and
gold prayer-book phrased it, “honour and obey the civil authority,
and submit yourself to all your governors, teachers, spiritual
pastors and masters.”</p>

<h3>III</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny went up to Paradise for his Christmas holidays, and
there was the first word from Paul; a plain card, bearing the
stamp of the American Expeditionary Force, but no place; no
picture post-card with “Scenes in Irkutsk” or “Camel-sleigh
on the Volga,” or anything like that! “Dear Ruth,” it said:
“Just a line to let you know that I am well and everything is
all right. I have received three letters from you. Please write
often. We are busy and I am having an interesting time. Give
my love to all the family and to Bunny and Mr. Ross. Affectionately,
Paul.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Ruth had had this treasure for several days, and there was
no telling how many times she had read it, and studied every
mark on both sides. It seemed to Bunny a cold and unsatisfactory
note, but he did not say so to Ruth; he asked Dad
about it, and Dad said there would necessarily be a great deal
of censoring of soldier’s mail, and Paul had probably written
this bare message to make sure it got through. Why did there
have to be so much censoring? Bunny asked; and Dad
answered that these were ticklish times, and the army had to
protect itself against enemy propaganda.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad had been reading a magazine article which explained
what was happening in the world. The German and Austrian
empires had come down with a crash, and that was a great
triumph for democracy. But now the friends of democracy
had a second big job to do, which was to crush the wild beast
of Bolshevism. They were starving it by a blockade on every
front, and wherever the well-behaved and respectable Russians
had set up a government on the borders, the allies were helping
them with money and supplies. General Denikin had taken
possession of south Russia; on the west a lot of new states
had been set up; on the north, at Archangel, an anti-Bolshevik
group was making headway under British and American protection.
As to Siberia, there had been a Socialist government,
holding over from the Kerensky days; but these Socialists
were a lot of talkers, and now they had been kicked out and
replaced by a real fighting man, Admiral Kolchak, who had
once commanded the Tsar’s fleet. It was this he-admiral the
allies were backing to run Siberia, and our troops were there
to keep the railroad open for him. Of course the Bolsheviks,
and their sympathizers in this country, were making a fuss
about it, and telling all the lies they could; that was why we
had to have a censorship, said Dad.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny accepted this explanation without question. He had
been in a training-camp for seven months, and had acquired
the military point of view. He was keenly alert to the danger
of Bolshevik propaganda, and determined that if ever he ran
into any of it, he would hasten to denounce it. So innocent
was he, and so little aware of the subtlety of the enemy—he
never dreamed that he was at this time absorbing the poison;
and—of all places in the world—in one of the class-rooms of
his most Christian and conservative university!</p>

<p class="pindent">It was hard on a poor overworked university president.
Dr. Cowper’s most trusted dean had engaged this young
instructor, upon recommendation of high-up Y. M. C. A.
authorities. The young man had been doing relief work in
Saloniki, and was the son of a prominent Methodist pastor;
he bore the name of Daniel Webster Irving, and how was
anyone to imagine that a man with such a name might be suffering
from political shell-shock?</p>

<p class="pindent">This young instructor was subtle in his method; he did
not say anything that could be pinned down on him, but would
sow his seeds of doubt by asking questions, and advising students
to “think for themselves.” There are always in every
college class one or more “soreheads,” the sons of unorthodox
parents; one in Bunny’s class was an avowed “rationalist,” and
another had a Russian name. All that a teacher had to do was
to let these fellows ask questions, and quickly the whole group
would be wandering in a maze, demoralized by what the Japanese
government in its control of education describes as “dangerous
thoughts.”</p>

<p class="pindent">President Wilson had gone to Europe, in order to bring
about the reign of justice he had promised. He was having
a triumphal progress through England and France, and our
newspapers were full of the wonders of what he was about to
achieve. But in Mr. Irving’s class Bunny heard it pointed out
that the President had dropped from mention the most important
of his “fourteen points,” the demand for “freedom of
the seas.” Could it be that this had been the price of British
support for his program? And then, more startling yet, Bunny
learned that the secret treaties which the allies had signed
among themselves at the outset of the war were now laid on
the peace table, and made the basis of jealous bickerings.
Bunny had never forgotten about those treaties, how Dad had
assured Paul that they would turn out to be Bolshevik forgeries.
But here the allies were admitting them to be genuine,
and furthermore, were setting out to enforce them, regardless
of any promises of fair play which President Wilson had
made to the Germans!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny took this amazing news home with him to Dad;
apparently Paul had been right, and the wicked Bolsheviks
had been telling the truth! What did Dad make of it? Dad
didn’t know what to make of it; he was much disturbed, and
could only say we couldn’t judge, we’d jist have to wait. But
the trouble was, the longer we waited, the worse things seemed
to get; the more evident it became that our President had
done the very thing that Dad had been sure he would never
do—he had let himself be “jockeyed.” Like water seeping
underneath a dike, a subtle current of skepticism was creeping
through those freshman classes in Southern Pacific University
which were taking “Modern History 14.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Mr. Irving wasn’t supposed to be discussing the peace conference
at all; he was supposed to be seeing to it that his
students memorized the names of battles and commanding
generals in the Franco-Prussian war. But one theme led so
easily to the other, and it was so difficult to keep the “soreheads”
quiet! This same thing was happening in other class-rooms,
and in other parts of the United States where men
encountered their fellows, and thus became exposed to “dangerous
thoughts.” Before long the forbidden ideas were being
voiced in Congress, and after that they could not be kept
out of the newspapers. It was like a storm that burst over
the whole country. A million idealists like Bunny woke up all
at once to the cruel fact that their dolly was stuffed with
sawdust.</p>

<h3>IV</h3>

<p class="pindent">Yes, it was a trying time to be alive in the world. All
those golden promises that had been made to us, those bright
hopes we had cherished! All the blood of the young men
that had been shed, three hundred thousand of them dead
or wounded in France—and here were the allied statesmen,
grim, cruel old men, sitting at the council-table and putting
the world right back where it had been before! Perpetuating
all the old hatreds, all the old injustices—with a thousand
new ones to torment the future! Tearing Germans away from
their own land and giving them to Frenchmen, giving Austrians
to Italians, Russians to Poles—so on through a long list of
blunders; condemning millions of people to live under governments
which they feared and despised, and thus making certain
they would revolt, and throw Europe into uproar again!</p>

<p class="pindent">Men could not realize these things all at once; they got
them little by little, as details of the negotiations leaked out.
Every country in the world was carrying on its own propaganda,
thinking about its own selfish interests; and President
Wilson was in the midst of the mess, being pulled and
hauled about, this way and that, quite powerless for the good
aims he had proclaimed. As the picture of this got back to
America, there spread over the land such a wave of disgust
as had never been known before.</p>

<p class="pindent">And then the President himself came home, to declare
that he had achieved a complete victory. In the name of
“self-determination of all peoples” he was giving the German
Rhineland to France, and German Africa to Britain, and the
German Tyrol to Italy, and a Chinese province to Japan, and
to the United States a mandate over Armenia! Also he had
made a perpetual alliance with France and Britain, whereby
we bound ourselves to maintain this brand of self-determination
forever! When this program had been thoroughly realized,
a tone of hilarious cynicism became the correct thing
among the young intellectuals of America; fashionable young
matrons took to deceiving their husbands in the name of
chastity, and college boys began toting hip-pocket flasks out
of loyalty to prohibition.</p>

<p class="pindent">The thing was particularly hard upon Bunny, because he
had to go to Paradise every once in a while, and come face
to face with Ruth, and explain how self-determination for the
people of Siberia meant that her brother must stay there in
peace time and hold a bayonet at their necks. In elucidating
this singular situation, Bunny became almost as skillful
a trickster as if he had had a regular diplomatic job with
extra-territorial immunity. For a month or two he managed
it, while the Germans were dragged to Versailles and made to
sign an agreement to pay an indemnity so vast that it could not
be named.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then one day came a letter that made his task all but
impossible. It was an innocent-looking letter, written in a
crude hand on some sheets of cheap paper, postmarked Seattle,
and addressed to “Mr. Bunny Ross, Paridise, California.” It
said:</p>

<p class="pindent">“Dear Mr. Bunny: You dont know me but I am a returned
soldier that used to punch cattle in Salinas valley.
Paul Watkins said I should write you because he cant get no
news by the censors. I am invalidded back, have had the
Asiatic dissenterry, am bleeding at the bowls three months
and you should wash your hands good when you have read
this letter, because it is an easy dissease to catch. I am in
issolation and this will be smuggled, for God’s sake dont let
on I have wrote it they would sure put me in the can. But
Paul said your father might do something to get us boys out
if he knew what a hell it was. Mr. Bunny what are we
doing in that place and why do we have to stay? It is forty
below zero most of the winter and big storms a lot of the time
and you have to do sentry duty and in summer the muskeetoes
is big as flies and where they bite the blood runs. And
the Japs take shots at us, they are suppose to be our allies
but they are sure grabbing that country there is suppose to be
only seven thousand but there is seventy and why did we take
them in there? Our boys is not allowed to have no side arms
and the Japs have got bayonets and we have only fists. We
have zones that we are supposed to control but the Japs will
not keep out of them and I have saw them put out with
machine guns lined up, and if we have to have a war with them
over Siberia there will sure be a lot of our boys massacreed
at the startoff. And them Russian refugees and officers that
we have orders to help I heard our colonel say, you give
them money to start a government and they go on a bust
and that night you have to pull them out of a sporting house.
They have got one idea which is to shoot all the workingmen
they can get hands on and the women too and they torture
them, Mr. Bunny I seen things that it would make you
sick to read them. From General Graves down our army is
sore on this job and some of them is gone crazy, there has
been more than twenty in our regiment and some has been sent
home in a strait jacket. But the people at home is not allowed
to know nothing, there is boys in our regiment that is not
had one line from their folks in half a year and they are
crazy with worry. Why do we have to be there when the
war is over, if you know I wish you would tell me. But
Paul said not to tell his sister, because it is not so bad for
himself, they move him a lot and he is always busy it is easy
when you have a lot of carpenter work but for some fellers
I seen them carry a stack of railway ties a hundred yards and
then move them back to the old place just to keep us working.
Please send me some cigarettes that will be a way to say
that you have got this letter and if you send two packages I
will know that you want me to write some more. Yours respectfully,
Jeff Korbitty.”</p>

<h3>V</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny took this letter to Dad, and it worried him very
much, of course, but what could Dad do about it? He had
three wells to bring in that week, and one of them broke
loose and smeared up a couple of hundred acres of rocks.
Also he and Mr. Roscoe had to deal with the amazing gyrations
of the oil market. It seemed as if all the nations in
the world had suddenly set themselves to buying up gasoline;
perhaps they were making up for the shortage of the war,
or perhaps they were getting ready for another war—anyhow,
the price was up sky-high, and Southern California was being
drained. It was truly amazing, the gas-stations were refusing
to sell to any but their regular customers, and then only five
gallons at a time; other stations were clean empty, and cars
were stalled for days. Dad and Mr. Roscoe were making a
tremendous killing; they were getting real money too, Dad said
with a laugh, none of these foreign bonds for them!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny shipped a dozen cartons of cigarettes to Jeff Korbitty;
and day and night he worried over the problem of Paul.
Somehow the putting down of Bolshevism took on quite a
different aspect when it meant keeping Paul in Siberia! Also,
Bolshevik propaganda seemed a different thing when it came
from the pen of an ex-cowpuncher from Salinas valley! Bunny
simply had to do something, and finally in desperation he sat
himself down and composed a letter to his Congressman, Mr.
Leathers, telling what he had heard about conditions in Siberia,
and requesting that functionary to ascertain the War Department’s
reasons for censorship of soldiers’ mail in peace time,
also to urge an investigation by Congress of the reasons for
keeping American troops in Siberia.</p>

<p class="pindent">That letter was due to reach the Congressman five days
later. Seven days after Bunny had posted it, a well-dressed
and affable gentleman called at the Ross home in Angel City,
stating that he was the owner of an oil concession in Siberia
and wanted to interest Mr. Ross in it. Dad was up at Paradise,
so Bunny talked with the gentleman, and finding him
humane and catholic in his interests, told him all about Paul,
and showed him Jeff Korbitty’s letter. They discussed the
situation in Siberia, and the gentleman said there had been
no declaration of war against the Russians, so what right did
we have fighting them? Bunny said it seemed the same way
to him; and then the gentleman went away, and no more
was heard about the oil concession, but a couple of weeks
later Bunny received a second letter from the ex-cowboy
soldier, bitterly reproaching him for having’ “throwed me
down,” as he must have done, because Jeff hadn’t wrote to
nobody else, but the army had got onto him, and they had
throwed him into the can just like he had said, and he was
smuggling out this letter to tell Bunny that he could go to
hell and stay there. Which was one stage more in the education
of a little idealist!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny simply had to talk to somebody about this episode.
Next day, as he was driving away from the university in his
sporty new car, he noticed a young man walking with a slight
limp, and it struck him as impolite for a student of the university
to drive in a sporty new car, while an instructor of
the university had to walk with a slight limp. Bunny slowed
up, and inquired, “Will you ride with me, Mr. Irving?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“If you’re going my way,” said the other.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Whatever way you wish,” was Bunny’s reply. “As a matter
of fact, I’ve been hoping for a chance to talk with you, and
it would be a favor to me.”</p>

<p class="pindent">The young man got in, and stated the address to which
he wished to go; then he said, “What is on your mind?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I want to ask you why you think it is that we are keeping
an army in Siberia.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Mr. Daniel Webster Irving was a peculiar-looking person;
his head came up a long way out of his collar, and with its
quick alert movements it made you think of a quail sitting in
a tree and looking out for you and your gun. He had a brown
moustache, rather bristly and rebellious, and grey eyes which
he fixed upon you sharply when you said something stupid in
class. He fixed them now upon Bunny, demanding, “What
makes you interested in that?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I have a friend with the troops there, nearly a year,
and I’ve had some news that worries me. I don’t understand
what’s going on.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Said Mr. Irving: “Are you asking me as a student, or as
a friend?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Why,” replied Bunny, a little puzzled, “I’d be glad to be
a friend, if I might. What is the difference?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“The difference,” said the other, “might be the loss of my
position in the university.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny flushed, embarrassed. “I hadn’t thought of anything
like that, Mr. Irving.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’ll put it to you bluntly, Ross. I spent all I had saved
on relief work in Europe and came home broke. Now I am
educating a young sister, and they are paying me the munificent
salary of thirteen hundred a year. I am due to get a
rise of two hundred next year, and the matter of contracts
comes up this month. If it is reported that I am defending
Bolshevism to my students, I won’t get a contract, either here
or anywhere else.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, but Mr. Irving, I wouldn’t dream of reporting you!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You wouldn’t need to. You’d only need to tell your parents
or your friends what I think is the reason our troops
are in Siberia, and they would consider it their moral duty to
report me.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Is it as bad as that?” said Bunny.</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’s so bad that I don’t see how it could be worse,” said
Mr. Irving. “I will answer your question provided you agree
that I am talking as a friend, and that you won’t mention
the conversation to anyone else.” And you can see how deeply
Bunny had fallen into the toils of Bolshevism, when he was
willing to agree to a proposition such as that!</p>

<h3>VI</h3>

<p class="pindent">What Mr. Irving said was that our troops were in Siberia
because American bankers and big business men had loaned
enormous sums of money to the government of the Tsar, both
before the war and during it; the Bolshevik government had
repudiated these debts, and therefore our bankers and business
men were determined to destroy it. It was not merely the
amount of the money, but the precedent involved; if the government
of any country could repudiate the obligations of a
previous government, what would become of international
loans? The creditor nations—that is to say America, Britain
and France—maintained that a government debt was a lien,
not against the government, but against the country and its
resources. The total amount of international loans was one or
two hundred billions of dollars, and the creditor nations meant
to make an example of Soviet Russia, and establish the rule
that a government which repudiated its debts would be put out
of business.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny found this a novel point of view, and asked many
questions. Mr. Irving said that in Washington was a Russian
who had been the war-time ambassador to our country,
and in that capacity had had the handling of the money loaned
by our government, and used for buying guns and shells
for Russia. At the time of the Bolshevik revolution, this
ambassador had just got something like a hundred million
dollars, and our government was allowing him to use it to
set up a propaganda machine against the Soviet government,
with a spy system as elaborate as the Tsar had ever known.
Newspapers and newspaper men, government officials and legislators,
all were on this ambassador’s pay-roll. Moreover, there
were in our state department officials who had married Russian
wives of the old nobility, and these wives had lost everything
in the revolution, and it was natural they should hate
the new regime. One official was a member of the banking-house
which had handled the loans and stood to lose a fortune;
others were tied up with banks and business concerns which
had vast sums at stake. So it came about that America was
at war with Soviet Russia, on the entire circumference of that
vast republic; and so it came about that an instructor in an
American university could not discuss the matter with one of
his students, even outside the class-room, without fear of losing
his position.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mr. Daniel Webster Irving denied that he had any sympathy
with Bolshevism, or wished to teach such doctrines in America;
and Bunny, in his innocence of soul, accepted this statement—not
knowing that all Bolshevik agents say that, until they
have got the minds of their victims thoroughly poisoned. Mr.
Irving expressed the view that what was happening in Russia
was a great social experiment. Could a government of the
working-class succeed? Was democracy in industry a possibility,
or only a fanatic’s dream? We ought to send disinterested
people, experts of all sorts into Russia, to watch what
was happening and report it. Instead of that, we were helping
France and Britain to starve the Russians out; we were
compelling them to spend all their energies resisting our armies,
and those which we subsidized; we were making it impossible
for the experiment to succeed, and so, of course, its
failure would prove nothing.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny, poor little propaganda victim, said that he was
beginning to change his mind about these matters. Yes, the
Russians surely had a right to work out their own problem
in their own way; and certainly we ought to know the truth
about what was happening—he wished there was some way
to get it. Thereupon Mr. Irving gave him the names of two
weekly magazines, which as it happened, had just been excluded
from the library of the university, and from all the
high schools of Angel City, for “dangerous thoughts.”</p>

<p class="pindent">You can imagine what happened then. When you tell a
high-spirited lad that he must not read certain publications,
he becomes immediately filled with curiosity to know what
they contain. Bunny went home and sent in his subscription to
these papers; quite openly, in his own name. So there was
another entry in the card-indexes of the Military Intelligence
Department and the Naval Intelligence Department and the
Secret Service Department; to say nothing of many organizations
which were using these card-indexes as their own—several
patriotic societies, and several militant newspapers, and
several big private detective agencies, including, of course, the
information service of the once-upon-a-time ambassador from
a no-longer-existing Russian government.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny, groping about for some way to help Paul, was
next moved to write a letter to the Southern Pacific “Stude,”
telling what he had come to think about the Siberian situation;
being careful, of course, not to refer to Mr. Irving, nor to
name either Paul or Jeff Korbitty. His letter was returned
to him by the student editor, with a note protesting against a
man of his prominence in the university giving such aid to
the enemies of his country. The news of this incident spread,
and the wildest rumors took wing; Bunny was besieged by
friends and others, who wanted to read the letter, and then to
argue with him.</p>

<p class="pindent">One member of the senior class declared that he agreed
with Bunny—certainly the Russians had a right to run their
own country. Billy George was this man’s name, and his father
was a wealthy manufacturer of iron pipe. Needless to say,
Bunny was glad to have a little sympathy, and let his new friend
read his letter to the “Stude,” and Jeff Korbitty’s letter to
him, and told all his ideas and troubles; and thus the card-indexes
in Angel City, New York and Washington were further
enriched. Inasmuch as so many other people were allowed
to inspect these indexes, it will surely not be unpatriotic for
us to take a glimpse into the file. The cards were six by eight
in size, neatly typed on both sides; and when one was full,
another was started. Our young idealist’s now stood as follows:</p>

<p class="pindent">“Ross, James Arnold, junior, alias Bunny: 679 S. Mendocino
Ave., Angel City, Calif., also Paradise, San Elido Co.,
Calif. Age 20, height 5′ 9½″, hair brown, eyes brown, features
regular; photo attached. Son of J. Arnold Ross, v-pres.
Ross Consolidated Oil Co., Vernon Roscoe Bldg., Angel City,
also indept. oil interests, estimated worth $25,000,000. Graduate
1918 Beach City (Calif.) High School, school records
good, reported sex susceptibility, report agent 11497 attached.
Active sympathizer Paradise oil strike 1916-17, intimate friend
of Paul Watkins, strike leader, file 1272W17. Suspected intimate
with Rose Watkins, sister of Paul. Training at Camp
Arthur, 1917-18, record satisfactory. Wrote to Hon. H. G.
Leathers, 49th California district, prompted by returned soldier
Jeff. Korbitty, file 9678K30; see letter attached, also report
agent 23,672 attached. Class of 1923, Southern Pac. Univ.,
member Kappa Gamma Tau fraternity, trackrunner, pupil of
Daniel Washington Irving, file 327118. Sentimental sympathizer
Bolsh. Subscriber Nation, New Republic. Further reports
from agent 11497, fellow student; also 9621, intimate with
subject’s sister, known as Birdie Ross.”</p>

<h3>VII</h3>

<p class="pindent">The elder Ross had another source of information as to
world affairs, besides his morning and afternoon newspapers,
and his idealist son. His associates in the oil-game were
thinking vigorously on the subject, and they held long conferences
and studied elaborate reports. They also were dissatisfied
with the diplomacy of President Wilson—not because he
wasn’t making the world safe for democracy, but because he
wasn’t making it safe for oil operators. In the territories
being taken from the enemies were petroleum regions of wealth
untold; and here, in the imbecile name of idealism, we were
permitting France and Britain to grab this treasure, while all
we got was the job of keeping the Turks off the Armenians!</p>

<p class="pindent">So far as Dad personally was concerned, his interests were
at home. It was Excelsior Pete and Victor Oil and the rest
of the “Big Five” which were reaching out for foreign concessions,
and if they got the prizes, the price of oil at home
might drop, and cost Dad a good chunk of money. Nevertheless,
he took the patriotic attitude; the country needed oil, and
it was our business to get it. So you see, Dad also was an
idealist; and it vexed him that his kind of idealism was so
little appreciated by his son.</p>

<p class="pindent">He was becoming convinced that the university was to
blame. No matter what Bunny might say, it was this “education
business” that was unsettling his mind, and spoiling him
to deal with practical affairs. Several times Bunny realized
that the shrewd old man was probing his mind; there must be
some older person influencing Bunny’s thought, and the most
suspicious fact was Bunny’s failure to mention such a person.
Bunny realized that sooner or later the name of Daniel Webster
Irving, alias Daniel Washington Irving, was bound to
come into the open; so he hit on a shrewd idea—he would get
Dad to meet his instructor-friend! It would never be possible
for Dad to report a man whom he had received in his home!</p>

<p class="pindent">“Dad, I want to bring one of my teachers up to see the
field.” And of course Dad was delighted; it would bring a
bit of culture into his world, and give him a share in his boy’s
mental life. One fear which haunted Dad was that this “education
business” might cause Bunny to become ashamed of his
ignorant old father. Dad knew that there were “high-brow
fellers,” crazy enough to look down upon twenty-five million
dollars—or at any rate to pretend to!</p>

<p class="pindent">Mr. Irving was to teach in summer school, but he had ten
days in between, and Bunny suggested that he might like to
motor up to Paradise for a week-end, and the young instructor
accepted with pleased surprise. So they set out, one morning
in June, in that sunshiny weather which is so common
in Southern California that you forget all about it. On the
way they talked about events in Russia and Siberia; the progress
being made by General Denikin and Admiral Kolchak,
the desperate efforts of the Bolsheviks to organize a “red
army,” and the hope of the German ruling class to win back
to respectability by serving the allies against the Russian
revolution. Also Bunny told Mr. Irving his idea about this
visit; Dad must be allowed to do most of the talking, and
Mr. Irving should voice only such opinions as were proper
for an elderly oil man to hear.</p>

<h3>VIII</h3>

<p class="pindent">They arrived at Paradise, and the instructor was duly installed
in the fine new Spanish “ranch-house” which Dad had
erected on the tract for the use of himself and his guests.
It was built around the four sides of a court, with a fountain
splashing in the center, and date-palms and banana plants and
big shoots from the bougainvillea vine starting to climb the
stucco walls. There was a Japanese who served the double
function of butler and cook, and a boy who combined gardening
with dish-washing, while Ruth had been promoted to be
housekeeper and general boss. There were six guest-rooms,
and when the executives and directors and geologists and engineers
of Ross Consolidated came up to the tract, they were
always Dad’s guests, and it was one big happy family. They
would settle around a green baize table in the living-room
right after supper and start playing poker; they would pull
off their coats and unhitch their suspenders, and ring for the
Jap to bring more cigars and whiskey and soda, and they
would fill the room with blue smoke and never move from
their seats until the small hours of the morning. It was an
amusing illustration of the double standard of morals, that
Dad was glad his son preferred to stay in his own room and
read, and not hear the stories which the oil men would tell
when they broke loose.</p>

<p class="pindent">But there was no gambling this time—this was to be a
high-brow week-end, in honor of “the professor,” as Dad
persisted in referring to his guest. The elder Ross was naively
proud to have a “professor” visiting him, and to show him
the well that was spudding in, and the one that was bailing,
and the score that were drilling. They inspected the new
refinery, something really special, that had been exploited in
the newspapers as the latest miracle in petroleum engineering;
incidentally it was a work of art, buildings of concrete and
shining, newly-painted metal, set in a regular pleasure park.
Oil wells are black and greasy, incurably so, but a refinery is
different; the stuff comes in underground pipes, and most of
it is taken away in the same fashion, so a refinery can be laid
out according to the taste of a young idealist, with neat fences
of steel mesh covered with rose vines, and plots of grass with
gravelled roads winding between. The Ross refinery was as
big as a good-sized village, only most of its houses were tanks;
big tanks and little tanks, high tanks and squat tanks, round
tanks, oblong tanks and square tanks, black tanks, red tanks,
and tanks with an infinite variety of colors inside where they
did not show.</p>

<p class="pindent">The main feature was an enormous battery of stills, set in
a row and joined together with a tangle of pipes; each still
big enough to have served the purposes of all the bootleggers
of the United States. In the first still the crude oil was
heated to a certain temperature, and it gave off one of its products;
this was the “cracking” process. The remainder went
on to the next still, where it got a little hotter, and gave off
something else. So it went from still to still—the process
known as “continuous” distillation. The product from each
still was run into a big condenser, and from there into its own
tank; so you got gasoline of several qualities, and kerosene
and benzine and naphtha, and a dozen different grades of lubricating
oil, and petrolatum, and thick, black lovely tar, and endless
pans of smooth white paraffin wax.</p>

<p class="pindent">You can see how in these processes there was room for
no end of management, and the discovery of new methods.
Dad had a chemist that he never tired of telling about—say,
that fellow was a wonder! Dad paid him six thousand a
year, and owned everything he discovered, and he had saved
the company several millions since it had started. That McEnnis
jist lived on carbon rings and chains—he would draw
you diagrams on the blackboard, and it would be a purple
dye, and then he would add another C-unit, and by golly, it was
some green stuff that would cure tape-worms, and the name
of it was longer than any tape-worm ever measured.</p>

<p class="pindent">They must meet this wizard; so they went over to the
laboratory, which was on a little hill-top away off by itself,
so that the inmate might be free to blow himself up as many
times as he wanted. McEnnis was pale, stoop-shouldered and
partly bald, and peered at you through big spectacles. Dad
was proud to introduce “Professor” Irving, and the chemist
showed them a row of test-tubes and retorts, and explained
that he was trying to ascertain why normal hexane and the
more stable methyl cyclopentane are so much less stable to
heat than saturated hydrocarbons of the same molecular
weight. There was a chance here to effect the biggest saving
in refining history, but the trouble was, the maximum percent
of defines demanded by the simple general equation—and here
the chemist began to write on the
blackboard—RCH₂—CH₂—CH₂R₁<span style="font-size:larger">➳</span>RCH₃+CH₂=CH.R₁—was
seldom attained owing to polymerization of the olefines and the formation
of naphthenes.</p>

<p class="pindent">After learning which, they went back to the “ranch-house”
for a supper of fried chicken, with fresh green corn and
honeydew melons from Imperial valley, and then they settled
down for a chat. Mr. Irving behaved beautifully; they talked
till midnight, and he answered a hundred of Dad’s questions
about world affairs, and told what he had seen of relief work
in Greece and of diplomacy in France.</p>

<p class="pindent">The young instructor had some relatives in high positions,
so he knew things on the inside; they fitted in with what Dad
knew—yes, it was awful, the way things were being bungled.
My God, here were we jist telling the Japs to help themselves
to Saghalien, that had more oil perhaps than all the rest of
the world; and the British of course were getting to work
to repair the pipe-lines at Baku, and at Mosul they had the
whole field, and the French were getting into Persia with the
British, and the same in Syria, and where was your Uncle
Sam? Vernon Roscoe was jist raising hell, because he had
had some contracts at Baku, and what was the use of kicking
out the Bolshevikis and putting in the Anglo-Dutch? Roscoe
said this country needed a practical man for president and not
a college professor—</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad stopped, afraid that he had made a “break”; but Mr.
Irving laughed, and said, “Don’t worry, Mr. Ross, I am not
entitled to that high honor, and don’t expect ever to make it.”
So Dad went on with Roscoe’s tirade; the oil men by golly
had had their lesson, and were going to get together and have
something to say about the next election—they were going to
have a business man for president. Bunny and his Bolshevik
instructor exchanged the faintest trace of a glance, but Dad
suspected nothing. Afterwards, when he was alone with
Bunny, he remarked, “Son, that’s a bright young fellow. It’s
a pleasure to talk with a man that understands affairs like
him.” You see how the Bolshevik propaganda was spreading!</p>

<h3>IX</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny spent that summer “playing about,” as the phrase
ran; he read a few books on the international situation, he
studied some of the confidential reports of Vernon Roscoe’s
foreign agents, and watched the derricks climb over a couple
more hills of the Ross Junior tract. Bertie telephoned, insisting
that he should make his debut into society and meet some
“eligible” girls; so he went with her to spend a week at the
camp of the ultra-fashionable Woodbridge Rileys, located high
in the mountains, in a “club” to which only the elect might
attain. Here people boated and swam, but otherwise lived as
complicated lives as in the city, tangled in the same web of
social duties and engagements, and dressing several times a
day. They drank a great deal at dinner, and danced to the
music of a Negro jazz orchestra until daybreak, after which
the young people would go horseback riding, and have a late
breakfast, and sleep a couple of hours before keeping a
luncheon engagement.</p>

<p class="pindent">Here Bunny got to know Eldon Burdick, who had been his
sister’s favored suitor for a couple of years. Just what was
their relationship Bunny was not sure. Dad had ventured a
jest about an approaching wedding, but Bertie froze him; she
would attend to her own engagements, with no parental meddling.
Now Bunny discovered that the pair were quarreling;
he could not help overhearing them, and seeing tears in his
sister’s eyes. She was angry because Eldon would only spend a
week-end at the camp, and he was angry because she punished
him by dancing too often with some other man. But neither
of the pair offered any confidences to Bunny, and he did not
seek them.</p>

<p class="pindent">Eldon Burdick was the youngest son of a family of old
California land-owners. Their holdings lay on the outskirts
of Angel City, and every ten years or so they would sell off
a chunk for “subdivisions,” and this development would so
increase the value of the remainder that the family grew richer
all the time, despite the fact that forty people, young and old,
spent money for everything they could think of. Eldon was
a handsome, dashing sportsman with a tiny black moustache,
after the fashion of a British army officer; he held himself
erect and stiff, and Bunny discovered that he had a military
mind. Bertie must have mentioned her brother’s dangerous
ideas, for Eldon invited the younger man for a horseback
ride, and proceeded to sound him out. Eldon himself was an
amateur patriot, in the proper sense of the abused word amateur;
he was letting his string of polo-ponies stay idle all summer,
while he did his part to save society.</p>

<p class="pindent">It did not take long for him to uncover the deeps of
Bunny’s peril. The boy had got by heart every one of the
Bolshevik formulas: that the people of Russia had a right to
run their own country in their own way; that our troops had
no business shooting and killing them without a declaration of
war by Congress; that people in this country had a right to
express the above convictions without being beaten or tarred
and feathered or sent to prison or deported. Eldon pointed
out that all this was merely camouflage, the convenient formulas
whereby criminal conspirators sought to cover themselves
with a mantle of legality, “free speech” and “civil rights”
and all the rest. The Soviet savages had repudiated all these
principles, and it was our business to fight them with their own
weapons.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny listened politely while his companion explained the
ramifications of the Bolshevik plot. Not merely had these
traitors sought to give the victory to Germany, they were now
organizing a propaganda machine to overthrow civilized government
all over the world; they were stirring up Negroes,
Hindoos, Chinese and Mohammedans to rise and exterminate
the white race. They had secret organizations with hundreds
of thousands of followers in this country, they published or
subsidized some eight hundred papers, all preaching class hatred.
How could any man of decent instincts make a truce
with this monstrosity?</p>

<p class="pindent">It was indeed terrifying, and difficult to answer; nevertheless,
Bunny stuck it out, we had no right in Russia or Siberia,
and if we would let the Bolsheviks alone, they couldn’t hurt us.
When we suppressed people’s ideas, we made it seem that we
couldn’t answer them; when we smashed up meetings and
threw hundreds of people into jail for trying to attend meetings,
we simply advertised the ideas we were trying to suppress,
we made lots of other people sympathize with the victims.
Look at those Russian Jewish boys and girls that had
been arrested in New York, all of them under twenty; they
had done nothing but distribute a leaflet appealing to the American
people not to make war on Russia, yet they had been tortured
in jail until one of them died, and the rest had got
sentences of twenty years! When Eldon Burdick discovered
that Bunny was defending vermin such as these, he first became
hot, and then he became cold; and soon Bunny noticed that
others of the guests were cold, and his sister came to him with
flashing eyes, declaring that he had ruined her social career.</p>

<h3>X</h3>

<p class="pindent">So Bunny went to visit Henrietta Ashleigh, at the beach-home
of her family; located on a beautiful blue lagoon, with
little white sail-boats dotted over it, and yellow and gray cliffs
covered with Spanish bungalows of many-tinted plaster. Here,
gliding about in a canoe, Bunny tried to justify his ideas, but
met no better success. Henrietta had an invincible prejudice
against Bolsheviks, and Bunny suspected the reason—she had
heard about the nationalization of women. He would have
liked to hint to her that he doubted the truth of these stories;
but if it had been possible to mention such a subject to Henrietta,
she would not have been his ideal of feminine purity.</p>

<p class="pindent">So Bunny had to motor up to Angel City and take Mr.
Irving out to lunch, in order to have some one to tell his troubles
to. But Mr. Irving made matters worse by giving him an
article from a Socialist paper, written by an English journalist
who had just come out of Russia, telling of the desperate
efforts the Communists were making to defend their cause.
The party had conscripted fifty percent of its members to go
to the front and die—that was what it amounted to, for even a
slight wound was often fatal—there were no antiseptics anywhere
in a country of more than a hundred million people.
On twenty-six fronts the Russian workers were waging battle
against a host of enemies. In Finland alone the counter-revolutionary
general Mannerheim had slaughtered a hundred
thousand people suspected of sympathy with Bolshevism; he
had done it with American guns and American ammunition,
and his troops many of them wearing American uniforms. In
cases where the troops had been beaten by the Bolsheviks and
forced to retreat, the American Red Cross had burned millions
of dollars worth of medical supplies, for fear that they might
be used to save wounded Bolshevik soldiers and Bolshevik
women in child-birth. Somehow, when you knew that things
like this were happening in the world, you did not enjoy drifting
about in a canoe on a beautiful blue lagoon!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny went back to Paradise, and studied and thought and
waited. There came another post-card from Paul—just like
the former one, cold and matter-of-fact; Paul was well and
busy, and was being taken good care of; he had had another letter
from Ruth; he hoped that the family was well, and also the
Rosses. Bunny now knew the world-situation sufficiently to
understand why Paul wrote such a card, and even to imagine
the bitterness that Paul must feel to be compelled to write it.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny thought that he also would try his hand at card-writing.
He got a plain postal, and told Paul that they were
all well and busy, and producing a lot of oil to help defeat
America’s enemies. “I am doing a lot of thinking,” Bunny
added; but then it occurred to him that this might suggest a
forbidden procedure to troops, so he got another card and told
how happy everybody was and how well things were going,
and then added, “I am coming to agree with Tom Axton in
everything.” Bunny figured that the censor would hardly
know, way out there in Siberia, how Tom Axton had organized
the oil workers in the Paradise field!</p>

<p class="pindent">All this time Bunny was torn between two sets of emotions,
both strong within him, and absolutely contradictory. He
had been in the army as a prospective officer and had burned
with patriotic loyalty; but now, only seven months later, here
he was with a desire to “root” for the enemies of his country,
and to cheer when the flag had to retreat! Yes, he was actually
tempted to be glad when he read that the American troops at
Archangel were checked, and their British commanders foiled
in their objectives! He remembered the thrills that had stirred
his soul in the training-camp, when he had leaped from his
tent at reveille, and seen “Old Glory” floating in the breeze
of dawn; if in those days he could have seen himself as he was
now, he would have called himself a black-hearted traitor!</p>

<h3>XI</h3>

<p class="pindent">There were very few people in the world who thought the
Russians would be able to defend themselves against the hosts
of all the world. Yet somehow they were managing it. There
was a peculiar thing to be noticed in the newspaper despatches
from the various anti-Bolshevik fronts. The allied troops
would win great victories; they would take Perm, or Ufa, or
whatever city it might be, and capture vast thousands of the
enemy. A month or two later they would win another victory,
and again the patriots would be cheered up—until it
occurred to them to get the map, and compare the location of
the two places, and discover that the second place was one or
two hundred miles farther back than the first one!</p>

<p class="pindent">Later on Bunny found out what this meant. The peasants
had a way of staying quiet while the allied forces advanced,
and then rising up behind their lines and forcing them to
retreat. So mighty was Bolshevik propaganda—it was working
thus at Archangel, and all along the western front from
the Baltic to the Crimea, and all over Siberia; no victory ever
lasted. Admiral Kolchak got all the way across Siberia, General
Denikin, in the Ukraine, got within a hundred and twenty-five
miles of Moscow; but it all came to nothing.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then, as summer turned into fall, and fall into winter, a
still more terrifying thing began to happen. The armies of
the great powers began to show signs of succumbing to the
deadly propaganda poison! They were now in the second
winter since the armistice, and the soldiers thought the war was
over, and why couldn’t they go home? The very worst of the
prophesies of Eldon Burdick began suddenly to come true.
The sailors of the French fleet in the Black Sea rose up and
overthrew their officers and captured several battleships!
German troops declined to win their way back to respectability
by putting down Bolshevism for the allies! British soldiers at
Folkestone refused to go onto the ships that were to take them
to Archangel!</p>

<p class="pindent">And most appalling of all, a mutiny in the American army!
The first mutiny in the whole history of “Old Glory”! Michigan
lumbermen and farmer-boys, shipped up there under the
Arctic circle, put under the command of British officers, and
ordered out to shoot half-starved and ragged Russian workingmen
at fifty degrees below zero—these boys laid down their
arms! The facts were hushed up in the newspapers—but not
in the higher circles of the army and of world diplomacy, nor
yet in the office-buildings where the gentlemen and lady-patriots
planned the future of the world!</p>

<p class="pindent">In the month of October the allies made their last military
effort. They sent in the tsarist General Yudenich to take Petrograd;
they gave him all the supplies he could use, and troops
of many nations, and he got within a few miles of the city, so
that the Soviets had to move their capital to Moscow. But the
half-starved and ragged Communists drove back their foes,
and Bolshevik propaganda proceeded to cause a revolution in
Hungary and another in Bavaria!</p>

<p class="pindent">Also at home there were portents. In spite of all the raids
and jailings and deportations, great numbers of people could
not be prevented from saying publicly and loudly that we had
no business making war upon a friendly people. More and
more there was discontent with the program of keeping our
soldiers abroad after the war was over. “Radical” newspapers
and magazines continued to be circulated, and in the big cities
at any rate it was not possible to prevent mass-meetings.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was a little difficult to make any protest effective, because
of the peculiar condition into which the government had fallen.
The President had set out on a tour, to convince the people that
they should be satisfied with the peace settlement. He had
come to Angel City, and Dad and Bunny had gone to hear him—in
a vast hall where ten thousand people were marshalled,
and taught to stand up and sit down again, and cheer at signal,
all very reverently, quite like royalty. The great man’s voice
was strained, and his face had an unwholesome flush, and his
arguments were as broken as his appearance. A few days later
came word that his health had collapsed, and he was hurried
back to Washington, where he had an apoplectic stroke. Now
he lay, a helpless, half-conscious invalid, and the country was
governed by a strange triumvirate—a Catholic private secretary,
an army doctor, and one of the most fashionably dressed
of Washington society ladies.</p>

<p class="pindent">But somewhere, in the cabinet, perhaps, there was left a
trace of intelligence, with which to realize the mounting dangers
abroad and at home. At Christmas time, while Bunny
was up at Paradise, hunting quail and watching the progress
of Ross Consolidated, he went out one morning to meet the
Ford car which brought the mail to the tract. He got his
morning paper and opened it, and there on the front page was
a despatch from Washington, announcing that the army authorities
had decided it was no longer necessary for them to police
the Trans-Siberian Railway; we were going to leave the Japanese
in charge, and come home. Bunny gave a shout, and
rushed into the house, calling for Ruth. “Paul is coming back!
Paul is coming back!” And then he had to run quick and
catch her by the arm and help her to a chair!</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XI<br /> <span class="sub-head">THE REBEL</span></h1></div>

<h3>I</h3>

<p class="pindent">At Southern Pacific University the class lines were tacitly
but effectively drawn, and in the ordinary course of events a
man of Bunny’s wealth, good looks and good manners, would
have associated only with the members of fraternities and
sororities. If some Negro boy were to develop eloquence as
a debater, or if some one taking a course in millinery or plumbing
were to display fleetness as a hurdler, the hurdler might
hurdle and the debater might debate, but they would not be
invited to tea-parties or dances, nor be elected to prominence
in the student organizations; such honors were reserved for
tall Anglo-Saxons having regular features, and hair plastered
straight back from their foreheads, and trousers pressed to a
knife edge and never worn two days in succession.</p>

<p class="pindent">But here was Bunny Ross, persisting in fooling with “dangerous
thoughts,” that made his friends angry. Of course,
as anyone would have foreseen, there were “barbs” and
“goats,” anxious to break in where they were not wanted, and
perfectly willing to pretend to think that our country ought not
to intervene in Russia, if by so professing they could get to
know one of the socially élite. So Bunny found himself on
talking terms with various queer fish. For example, there was
Peter Nagle, whose father was president of a “rationalist
society,” and who seemed to have one dominating desire in
life—to blurt out in class that what was the matter with the
world was superstition, and that mankind could never progress
until they stopped believing in God. In a university all of
whose faculty were required to be devout Methodists, you can
imagine how popular this made him. Peter looked just as you
would expect such a boor to look, with a large square head and
a wide mouth full of teeth, and a shock of yellow hair which
he allowed to straggle round his ears and drop white
specks onto his coat collar—his coat did not match his
trousers, and he brought his lunch to the university tied with
a strap!</p>

<p class="pindent">And then there was Gregor Nikolaieff. Gregor was all
right, when you got to know him, but the trouble was, it was
hard to know him, because his accent was peculiar, and at
critical moments in his talk he would forget the English word.
He had jet black hair, and black eyes with a sombre frown
above them—in short, he was the very picture of what the
students called a “Bolsheviki.” As it happened, Gregor’s father
had belonged to one of the revolutionary parties whom the Bolsheviks
were now sending to jail; but how could you explain
that to a student body which dumped into one common garbage-can
Socialists and Communists and Syndicalists and Anarchists,
Communist-Anarchists and Anarchist-Syndicalists, Social
Revolutionaries and Social-Democrats, Populists, Progressives,
Single-taxers, Nonpartisan Leaguers, Pacifists, Pragmatists,
Altruists, Vegetarians, Anti-vivisectionists and opponents of
capital punishment.</p>

<p class="pindent">Also there was Rachel Menzies, who belonged to a people
that had been chosen by the Lord, but not by the aforesaid
student body. Rachel was rather good-looking, though in a
dark, foreign way; she was short—what feminine enemies
would have called “dumpy”—and made no pretense at finery,
but came to the university in black cotton stockings and a shirtwaist
that did not match her skirt. There was a rumor that
her father worked in a clothing factory, and her brother was
pressing students’ pants for an education.</p>

<p class="pindent">And here was the discoverer and heir-apparent of the Ross
Junior oil field, letting himself be seen in public with these
people, and even trying to introduce them to his fraternity
brothers; excusing himself by saying that they believed in “free
speech.” As if it were not obvious that they would, having
everything to gain and nothing to lose! Proletarians of all
universities unite!</p>

<p class="pindent">Poor Bunny got it from both sides. “Look here,” said
Donald Burns, president of the sophomore class, “don’t you
introduce me to any more of your Yid fairies.” And then,
“Look here,” said Rachel Menzies, “don’t you introduce me
to any more of your male fashion-plates.” Bunny protested,
he had the idea that all kinds of people ought to know one
another; but Rachel informed him that she thought too much
of herself. “Probably you’ve never been snubbed in your life,
Mr. Ross, but we Jews learn the lesson early in our lives—not
to go where we aren’t wanted.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Said Bunny, “But Miss Menzies, if you believe in ideas,
you’ve got to teach people—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Thank you,” she said; “I believe in my ideas, but not
enough to teach Donald Burns.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But how can you tell?” Bunny protested. “You’re teaching
me, and I don’t belong to the working-class.” He had
learned that this girl was a member of the Socialist party, and
it was “class-consciousness,” as well as Jewish consciousness.</p>

<p class="pindent">Rachel insisted that Bunny was one person in a million,
capable of believing what was contrary to his economic interests.
But Bunny had no awareness of anything extraordinary
about himself. Instead of being a conspicuous and shining
leader, as his high destiny directed, he was always looking for
some one he could lean on, some one who was positive, and
whom he could trust. He found some of this in Henrietta
Ashleigh, who knew exactly what was proper; and he found
some more of it in Rachel Menzies, who knew exactly what
was true, and said it with energy and frankness that were like
flashes of lightning in the twilight of Southern Pacific culture.</p>

<p class="pindent">The only trouble was, the contradiction between his two
authorities; it appeared almost as if what was true was not
proper and what was proper was not true! For Henrietta considered
Rachel an impossible person, and was cold as a corpse
in her presence; while Rachel’s idea of being insulting was to
tell Bunny that it was with Henrietta he really belonged, his
Creator had made him to take her to church.</p>

<h3>II</h3>

<p class="pindent">Amid this perplexity, Bunny found comfort in the backing
of Billy George, who was Anglo-Saxon and broad-shouldered,
and a senior besides. Billy assured him he was right, and suggested
that they take some steps to make their ideas understood
to the rest of the student body. Why not organize a little
group, the Society for the Study of Russian Problems, or
something of that sort? Bunny should ask Mr. Irving to
advise them, and perhaps join them—it would be much better
if they could have the backing of one of the teachers. So
Bunny went to Mr. Irving, who said at once that he could not
give any advice on the subject, for the reason that it would
jeopardize his position to do so; the students would have to
follow their own judgment. The young instructor did add this
much, they ought surely not use the name “Russian,” but take
some inoffensive title, the “Liberal Club,” or the “Social Problems
Society.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny took that advice to the others, meeting in one of the
class-rooms after hours. Billy George said it didn’t seem very
“spunky” of Mr. Irving; whereupon Rachel Menzies flared
up, he had no right to hint at such a thing, they all knew what
the teacher’s position was, and he had a perfect right to keep
out of trouble. What business had Mr. George to be finding
fault, when he himself had done nothing publicly?</p>

<p class="pindent">The other demanded to know what he could do, and the
girl was not backward in suggestions. Why not start a student
paper, a little four-page sheet, once a week or even once
a month? It would cost very little, and would make a hit,
they could be sure; look how many people had wanted to read
Mr. Ross’s letter about Siberia! If they printed that letter
they would set the campus on fire. Mr. George could have the
honor of being editor, and Rachel would contribute her share
of the cost. There was obvious irony in that, considering the
quantity of iron pipe which Billy’s father was known to be
marketing in Angel City. But they discussed it gravely, and
Billy didn’t think he could take any responsibility; his old man
would pull him out of college, and put him to work on a bookkeeper’s
stool.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then, automatically, the eyes of the group turned to
Bunny. What did he think? Bunny found his cheeks growing
red. He had wanted to explain his ideas to other people,
but had thought of doing it in some dignified way, privately
and quietly. A paper would make such a noise! Rachel Menzies
apparently didn’t mind a noise, but Henrietta would, she
would be horrified by the bare idea. Also there was Dad—the
“education business” would be damned forever by such a venture.
So Bunny had to say no; and Rachel Menzies said that
was all right, there were plenty of excuses, and she didn’t
blame anybody for finding the best one, but at least they had
no business criticizing Mr. Irving for lack of courage!</p>

<h3>III</h3>

<p class="pindent">Soon after that Bunny read in the paper that the transport
“Bennington” had arrived in San Francisco with two thousand
troops from Siberia. Paul’s unit was listed; so Bunny
called up Ruth on the telephone and told her the news, and
said, be sure to let him know as soon as she got word. Two
days later Ruth called him—Paul had arrived at Paradise. It
was a Friday, so Bunny “cut” his afternoon courses, and
jumped into his car. Dad had gone over to Lobos River, to see
to a “fishing” job, and so missed this first meeting.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was almost twenty months that Paul had been away, and
Bunny was keyed up with eagerness. The first glance gave
him a shock, for Paul looked quite terrible—gaunt and yellow,
his khaki jacket hanging loose upon him. “You’ve been sick!”
cried Bunny.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes,” said Paul; “but I’m getting all right now.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Paul, tell me what happened!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, it was no picnic.” And he seemed to think that
would satisfy both his sister and his friend—after a year and
a half!</p>

<p class="pindent">They were over in the cabin on the Rascum tract, where
Ruth and Paul had first begun house-keeping. It was supper-time,
and the girl had prepared a bounteous repast; but Paul
wasn’t much on eating just now, he said—afraid to trust himself
with good food. While they sat at table he told them
about Manila, where they had stopped; and about a storm on
the Pacific; but not a word about Siberia!</p>

<p class="pindent">Of course that wouldn’t do. After the meal they got Paul
settled in an arm-chair, and Bunny said, “Look here, Paul,
I’ve been trying to understand about this Russian business.
I’m quarrelling with most everyone I know about it, and I
counted on you for the truth. So please do tell us about it—just
what happened to you.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul sat with his head lying back. His face had always
been sombre, a prominent nose and wide mouth with a tendency
to droop at the corners; haggard as he was, this tendency
was accentuated, he looked like a mask of sorrow. “What
happened to me?” he said, in his slow voice; and then he
seemed to raise himself to the effort of recalling it. “I’ll tell
you what happened, son; I was kidnapped.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Kidnapped!” The two of them echoed the word together.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, just that. I thought I went into the army to put
down the Kaiser, but I was kidnapped by some Wall Street
bankers, and put to work as a strike-breaker, a scab.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Ruth and Bunny could only sit and gaze at Paul, and wait
for him to say what he meant by these strange words.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You remember our oil strike, Bunny? Those guards the
Federation sent up here—husky fellows, with plenty of guns,
and good warm clothes, rain-coats and water-proof hats and
everything. Well, that’s what I’ve been doing for a year and
a half—putting down a strike for Wall Street bankers. The
guards here at Paradise got ten dollars a day, and if they
didn’t like it, they could quit; but I got thirty a month and
beans, and if I tried to quit they’d have shot me. That was
the cinch the bankers had.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Again there was a pause. Paul had closed his eyes, and
he told a part of his story that way, looking at things he saw
inside his mind.</p>

<p class="pindent">“First thing, the allies took the city of Vladivostok. The
strikers had that city, with a perfectly good government, everything
orderly and fine. They didn’t make much resistance—they
were too surprised at our behavior. We shot a few longshoremen,
who tried to defend one building, and the strikers
had a big funeral with a procession; they brought the red
coffins to the American consulate with banners that asked us
why we had shot their people. It happened to be the Fourth
of July, and we were celebrating our revolution; why had we
overthrown theirs? Of course we couldn’t answer; none of
us knew why we had done it; but little by little we began to
find out.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul paused, and waited so long that Bunny thought he
wasn’t going on. “Why, Paul?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, just outside that city, along the railroad track, there
were fields—I guess there must have been ten or twenty acres,
piled twenty feet high with stuff—guns and shells, railroad
locomotives, rails and machinery, motor-trucks—every kind of
thing you could think of to help win a war. Some of it was
in cases, and some without even a tarpaulin over it, just lying
there in the rain, and sinking slowly—some of the heavy stuff
two feet down in the mud. There was a hundred million dollars
of it, that had been put off the steamers, intended to be
taken across to Russia; but then the revolution had come, and
there it lay. One of our jobs was to guard it. At first, of
course, we thought it belonged to the government; but then
little by little we got the story. Originally the British government
had bought it for the Tsar’s government, and taken bonds
for it. Later, when we came into the war, the firm of Morgan
and Company took over the bonds from the British government,
and these supplies were Morgan’s collateral, and we had
overthrown the Vladivostok government to protect it for him.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Again there was a pause. “Paul,” said Bunny, anxiously,
“do you really know that?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul laughed, but without any happiness. “Know it?” he
said. “Listen, son. They sent out an expedition, two hundred
and eighty men to run the railroad—every kind of expert,
traffic men, telegraphers, linemen, engineers. They all wore
army uniforms, and the lowest man had the rank of second
lieutenant; of course we thought they were part of the army,
like the rest of us. But they got fancy pay, and by God, it
wasn’t army pay, it was checks on a Wall Street bank! I’ve
seen dozens of those checks. It was a private expedition, sent
to run the railroad for the bankers.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But why, Paul?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’ve told you—to break the strike. The biggest strike in
all history—the Russian workers against the landlords and
the bankers; and we were to put the workers down, and the
landlords and bankers up! Here and there were bunches of
refugees, former officers of the Tsar’s army, grand dukes and
their mistresses, land-owners and their families; they would
get together and call themselves a government, and it was our
job to rush them supplies, and they would print paper money,
and hire some adventurers, and grab a bunch of peasants and
‘conscript’ them, and that would be an army, and we’d move
them on the railroad, and they’d overthrow another Soviet
government, and slaughter a few more hundreds or thousands
of workingmen. That’s been my job for the past year and
half; do you wonder I’m sick?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Paul, did you have to kill people?” It was Ruth’s voice
of horror.</p>

<p class="pindent">“No, I don’t think I killed anybody. I was a carpenter, and
my only fights were with the Japs, that were supposed to be
our allies. You see, the Japs were there to grab the country,
so they didn’t want either the ‘white’ Russians or the ‘red’ ones
to succeed. The first thing they did was to counterfeit the
money of the ‘white’ government; they brought in billions of
fake roubles, and bought everything in sight—banks and hotels
and stores and real estate—they made themselves the capitalists,
and broke the ‘white’ government with their fake money.
They resented our being there, and the fact that we really
tried to help the ‘whites;’ they butted in on our job, and there
were times when we lined up our troops and threatened to
fire in five minutes if they didn’t move out. They were always
picking on our men; I was fired at three times in the dark—got
one bullet through my hat and another through my shirt.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Ruth sat there with her hands clasped together and her
face white. She could see those bullets going through Paul’s
clothing right now! And be sure that she was not unlearning
any of her dislike for war!</p>

<p class="pindent">“A lot of our fellows came to hate the Japs,” said Paul;
“but I didn’t. I got a philosophy out of this—the only thing I
did get. The ruling classes in Japan were grabbing half a
continent; but all the poor soldiers were grabbing was pay even
poorer than mine. They didn’t know what they were there
for—they, also, had been kidnapped. There were some that
had been to America, and I got to talk with them, and we never
had any trouble in agreeing. That was true of Czecho-Slovaks,
and Germans—every nation I met. I tell you, Bunny, if the
private soldiers could have talked it over, there wouldn’t have
been any war. But that is what is known as treason, and if
you try it you’re shot.”</p>

<h3>IV</h3>

<p class="pindent">Paul and Bunny talked, that Friday night, and a lot of Saturday
and Sunday, and Paul explained the Russian revolution.
There was an easy way for Bunny to understand it, Paul said;
if there was anything that puzzled him, all he had to do was
to remember their oil strike. “Ask yourself how it would have
been at Paradise, and then you know everything about Russia
and Siberia—yes, and Washington and New York and Angel
City. The Petroleum Operator’s Federation, that fought our
strike, they’re exactly the sort of men that sent our army
into Siberia—often they’re the same individuals. I read in
the paper yesterday how a syndicate of oil men in Angel City
has got some concessions in Saghalien. I remember one name,
Vernon Roscoe. He’s one of the big fellows, isn’t he?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul said this seriously, and Bunny and Ruth exchanged a
smile. Paul had been away so long, he had lost track of the
oil-game entirely!</p>

<p class="pindent">Said Paul, “The operators are the same, and so are the
strikers. Do you remember that little Russian Jew, Mandel,
a roughneck that was in our strike? Used to play the balalaika,
and sing us songs about Russia—we wouldn’t let him
make speeches, because he was a ‘red.’ Well, by jingo, I ran
into him in Manila, on the way out. He’d been travelling
steerage on a steamer, on the way to Russia, and they found
he was a Bolshevik, and threw him ashore and took away
everything he had, even his balalaika. I loaned him five dollars,
and six months later he turned up at Irkutsk, in a ‘Y’ hut.
Lying on a shelf there was a balalaika, and he said, ‘Why,
that’s mine! How did it get here?’ They told him a soldier
had brought it, but didn’t know how to use it. ‘You can have
it if you can play it,’ they said, so he played it all right, sang
us the Volga Boatman, and then the Internationale—only of
course nobody knew what it was. A few days later there were
orders to arrest him, but I helped him get away. Months after
that we came on him out in the country, not far from Omsk;
he had been a Soviet commissar, and the Kolchak people had
captured him, and buried him alive, up to his nose, just so that
he could breathe. When we found him the ants had eaten most
of his eyes, but there was still some life in him, his forehead
would wrinkle.”</p>

<p class="pindent">It was while Paul was alone with Bunny that he told this;
and the younger man sat, speechless with horror. “Oh, yes,”
said Paul; “that’s the kind of thing we had to see—and know
we were to blame for it. I could tell you things much worse—I’ve
helped to bury a hundred bodies of people that had been
killed, not in battle, just shot down in cold blood, men and
women, children, even babies. I’ve seen a ‘white’ officer shoot
women in the head, one after another; and with our bullets,
brought there by our railway men—I mean our bankers’ railway
men. A lot of our boys went plumb crazy with it. Out
of the two thousand that came off our transport, I doubt if
there were ten percent quite normal. I said that to our surgeon,
and he agreed.”</p>

<h3>V</h3>

<p class="pindent">All this was so different from what Bunny had been taught
that it was hard for him to adjust his thoughts to it. He would
go off and think it over, and then come back with another string
of questions. “Then Paul, you mean the Bolsheviks aren’t bad
people at all!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul answered, “Just apply the rule—remember Paradise!
They were workingmen, like any other workingmen on strike.
A lot of them have come from America—got their training
here. I used to meet them and have long talks—all kinds of
fellows, that had been all over this country. They are people
with modern ideas, trying to dig the Russians out of their
ignorance and superstition. They believe in education—I never
saw such people for teaching; everywhere, whatever they were
doing, they were always preaching, having lectures, printing
things—why, son, I’ve seen newspapers printed on old scraps of
brown butcher paper, or wrappings our army had thrown away.
I learned Russian pretty well—and it was just the sort of thing
our strikers printed at Paradise, only of course these people
have got farther in their struggle against the bosses, they see
things more clearly than we do.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny was staring, a little frightened. “Paul! Then you
agree with the Bolsheviks?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul laughed, a grim laugh. “You go up to Frisco and talk
with the men on that transport! That army was Bolshevik
to a man—and not only the privates, but the officers. I guess
that’s why they brought us home. There was mutiny in
Archangel, you know—or maybe you don’t.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I heard something—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Let me tell you, Bunny—I’ve been there, and I know.
The Bolsheviks are the only people in that country that have
any faith or any solidarity; and they’re going to run it, too—mark
my words, the Japs will get out, the same as we did.
You can’t beat people that will die for their cause, the last
man and the last woman.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Said Bunny, timidly, “Then it isn’t true what we’ve been
told—I mean about their nationalizing the women?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, my Lord!” said Paul. “Is that the sort of rot you’ve
been thinking?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, but how can we know what to think?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul laughed. “Come to think of it, I met some women
that had been nationalized by the Bolsheviks—as school-teachers.
They taught the men in their armies to read and write,
and made every man swear to teach ten others what he had
learned. I saw a couple of dozen such women in a cattle-car
on the Trans-Siberian railway, without a single blanket,
nothing but blocks of wood for pillows, not even a bucket
to serve for a toilet. They had several cases of Asiatic
cholera among them, and they’d been that way for ten or
twelve days—prisoners of war, you understand, waiting until
they got to Irkutsk, where they’d be shot without a trial.
And on the other hand, Bunny—here’s the truth, I was in
Siberia eighteen months, and never saw an atrocity committed
by a Bolshevik, and never met a man in our army that had
seen one. I don’t say there weren’t any; all I say is, I met
men that had travelled all over Russia, our people as well as
natives, and the only Bolshevik atrocity that anyone knew
about was the fundamental one of teaching the workers they
had a right to rule the world. You can set this down for a
fact about the Russian revolution, all the way from Vladivostok
to Odessa and Archangel—that where the ‘reds’ did any
killing or executing, the ‘whites’ did ten, and a hundred times
as much. You never hear about ‘white’ atrocities, because the
newspapers don’t report them—they are too busy telling how
Lenin has murdered Trotsky, and Trotsky has thrown Lenin
into jail.”</p>

<h3>VI</h3>

<p class="pindent">This meeting with Paul was the most exciting event of
Bunny’s life. It transvaluated all his values; things that had
been wicked became suddenly heroic, while things that had
been respectable became suddenly dull. Bunny, confronting
the modern industrial world with its manifold injustices, had
been like a man lost in a tangled forest. But here he had
been taken up in a balloon, and shown the way out of the
tangle. Everything was now simple, plain as a map. The
workers were to take over the industries, and run them for
themselves, instead of for the masters. Thus, with one stroke,
the knot of social injustice would be cut!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny had heard of this idea, and it had sounded fantastic
and absurd. But now came Paul to tell him that it had
actually been done! A hundred million people, occupying
one-sixth of the earth’s surface, had taken over their industries,
and were running them, and would make a success of them—if
only the organized greed of the world would stand off and let
them alone!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny took Paul in his car, to show him all the field.
They investigated the new refinery, that wonderful work of
art. Before them rose a great building, made entirely of
enormous baking-pans set one inside another—a stack half
way to heaven; the angels were making caramels for the whole
world, dainties with a new, patented flavor, and sickish sweet
odors that spread over the hills for miles and frightened the
quail away!</p>

<p class="pindent">It was twilight, and the white steam that rose from these
pans had a faint violet tinge as it merged with the sky. Electric
lights came on, white and yellow and red, until the place
looked like a section of Coney Island. And this resemblance
increased as you drove farther, and came to a building, long
and low, in which forty-four Dutchmen sat hidden puffing
on forty-four pipes, and doing it all in unison, like an orchestra;
the most comical effect you could imagine—forty-four exhausts
all keeping time, quick and sharp—puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny felt his old embarrassment in connection with the
Paradise tract; his title to these vast possessions was not clear,
and Paul was bound to be jealous, realizing how his family
had been tricked. But, then, in swift flashes of revelation,
Bunny discovered how completely out of date these old feelings
had become. Nevermore would Paul be jealous for his
lost heritage; never would he consider the claims of the Watkins
family—any more than the claims of the Ross family!
The Paradise tract belonged to the Paradise workers; the
beautiful new refinery was a ripe peach, hanging on a tree
and waiting to be picked! All that was needed was for some
one to point this out to the men. If Paul had not been weak
and exhausted, he might have pointed it out that evening,
and they could have taken over the plant, and had it ready for
operation under the new management by morning! All power
to the Soviets!</p>

<h3>VII</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny went back to the university, charged with these electrical
new thoughts; at one moment he would be trembling
with excitement, and at the next he would be frightened to
realize what he had been thinking. Some instinct warned him
that the idea of expropriating the industries of Southern California
would stand no chance with his class-mates; so he contented
himself with telling the good tidings about Russia—that
the revolution was not a blind outburst of ferocity, but
the birth of a new social order. Bunny told this; and Peter
Nagle received the gospel with his large mouth wide open;
while Gregor Nikolaieff said yes, but why had they got his
cousin in jail; and Rachel Menzies said they had got thousands
of Socialists in jail; and Billy George said, “Let’s
get a group of fellows together and have Paul come and talk
to them.”</p>

<p class="pindent">The rumor spread with magical swiftness through the university,
and the quick imaginations of Bunny’s friends supplied
all those details about which he had been silent. Bunny
Ross knew a workingman who was an out-and-out Bolshevik,
and had made Bunny into an out-and-out Bolshevik too; “the
millionaire red” became his future designation. Men and
women gathered round to question and argue with him; the
arguments often broke up with furious word rows, but all the
same it was interesting, and they came back for more. Bunny
was made into a centre of Soviet propaganda; for, when they
drove him to the wall with their arguments, what could he
do but go to Paul for more facts, and then come back and
hurl them at his adversaries’ heads? His fraternity brothers
sat up half the night with him, wrangling over his challenge to
everything they considered good.</p>

<p class="pindent">With rest and home cooking Paul picked up considerably,
and in a couple of weeks came down to Angel City to meet
a friend. Bunny joined him, and had another adventure, in
the person of Harry Seager. This man, ten years older than
Paul, was the head of a small business college, who had put
his affairs into a partner’s hands and gone in for “Y work”
during the war. They had sent him to Siberia, to help those
two hundred and eighty railway men whom the bankers were
paying. He had travelled up and down the line, seeing everything
there was to see, and now he had “kicked over the
traces,” and was telling the truth about the situation, in spite
of the protests of the “Y” authorities, and the army, and the
state department, and the Merchants’ and Manufacturers’
Association, and everybody that could put pressure on the head
of a business college in Angel City.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad was up to the ears just then in work, on account of
some wild-catting they were planning on the Bandy tract. But
Bunny insisted he must meet Harry Seager, and lured the two
of them to lunch, and Paul also, and before the soup was
eaten they had got Dad so stirred up that he did not eat
any more. Of course he was horrified at their story; but
there was no use expecting his mind to work the same as
Bunny’s. Dad couldn’t straighten out all the tangles in the
world, and didn’t feel the impulse to try. What worried him
was that the Japs were in Siberia; and that our diplomacy
was so unaware of oil; and most of all, that his son was falling
under the spell of wild and dangerous ideas.</p>

<p class="pindent">This fellow Seager, for example—a big six-foot Westerner,
handsome as a Viking, and picturesque because of hair turned
prematurely grey by his labors; you couldn’t deny the fellow’s
facts, you couldn’t think he was lying—but good Lord,
there was no use being thrown off your base, and going round
the country raising a public disturbance, attacking the government
because it had made a blunder in the confusion of war-time,
and then hadn’t known how to get out.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny dragged his father to a Socialist meeting at which
Harry Seager was to speak. It was in a big hall, with two
or three thousand people packed into it, and Dad thought
he had never seen so many dangerous people in all his life
before: foreign faces, dark and sinister, intense-looking intellectuals
with hair over their collars, women with short hair
and big spectacles, workingmen, sullen and dull, or sharp-faced,
bitter—oh, terrible, terrible people! And this man
Seager, lashing them to frenzy! Telling about the “death-train”
he had seen on the Trans-Siberian—more than two
thousand men and women packed into cattle cars, prisoners
of the “Whites,” who did not know what to do with them,
but ran the train here and there, shunting it onto sidings
for weeks, while the victims perished of hunger, thirst and
disease. And American troops standing by, feeding such murderers,
supplying them with money, protecting them with guns!
Yes, and it was still going on! Right now Polish troops
were invading Russia, wearing American uniforms, killing
Russian workingmen with American ammunition! What did
the people of America have to say?</p>

<p class="pindent">What the people of America had to say was a roar that
sent shivers down the spine of J. Arnold Ross. He looked
about him at this human ocean tossed by a storm—hands waving,
fists clenched, heads bobbing up and down with excitement;
and he knew what it meant—nobody could fool him.
When presently the crowd burst into cheering at the name
of Lenin, they were not cheering for what the Russian Lenin
had done, but for what some American Lenin meant to do.
“Hands off Russia!”—that was mere camouflage; what they
meant was, “Hands on Ross Consolidated!”</p>

<p class="pindent">And then, out of the corner of his eye, Dad stole a glimpse
at his son. Bunny apparently did not feel one particle of his
father’s fear! Bunny was like the rest of the mob, his face
shining with excitement. Bunny was shouting for “Hands off
Russia!”—and either he did not know what this mob meant
to do to Ross Consolidated, or else—worse yet—he did not
care!</p>

<h3>VIII</h3>

<p class="pindent">The little bunch of “reds” from the university had attended
this Seager meeting, and next day were all a-thrill with it.
Most of Bunny’s fraternity brothers had refused to go; and
now they proceeded to criticize an argument they had not
heard! Bunny’s feelings boiled over as he listened to them.
All this rubbish about nationalization of women, these faked
figures concerning millions of victims of Bolshevism! It was
a disgrace to a university that such stuff should pass for
knowledge, and no effort made to contradict it. Bunny voiced
this idea to Peter Nagle, and Peter went home and talked
to his father about it, and came back announcing that he was
willing to serve as editor for a student paper to present the
truth.</p>

<p class="pindent">There was another meeting of the conspirators, and thirty
dollars was quickly subscribed, and it was voted to publish a
four-page weekly sheet of all kinds of truth-telling, to bear
the name of “The Investigator.” It was agreed that the best
approach to the Russian problem was Harry Seager, because
he had been a “Y” worker in good standing; therefore Rachel
Menzies was requested to write a two thousand word interview
with Mr. Seager. Another young rebel was to collect facts
and rumors concerning secret payments made out of an alumni
fund to bring promising athletes to Southern Pacific. Bunny,
as social light of the crowd, was assigned the theme of college
snobbery, apropos of the fact that a Hindoo student with
high scholarship records had been black-balled for the “Lit.”</p>

<p class="pindent">And then Peter Nagle brought up his favorite hobby, in
the form of a poem mildly satirizing God. There was some
question as to the wisdom of bringing in the religious issue,
but Peter asserted his prerogatives as editor; either he was or
he wasn’t, and if he was, then he took his stand upon the
Russian formula, “Religion is the opium of the people.” Billy
George backed him up, insisting that the new paper should
cover the whole field of modern thought.</p>

<p class="pindent">Well, “The Investigator” was written, and edited, and set
up into galleys, and pasted on a “dummy,” and then cut up
and pasted differently. At last it was printed; there lay
the sheets, fresh from the press, soft and damp, like locusts
newly emerged from the chrysalis. Next day they would be
dry; and meantime, “Ssh! Not a word!”</p>

<p class="pindent">How were the papers to be distributed? There had been
much discussion. Bunny, with his lordly ideas, wanted to give
them away. But Rachel brought word from her father, the
tailor, who was also literature agent for Local Angel City
of the Socialist party, that the papers must be sold; people
wouldn’t respect them otherwise. “What they pay good money
for they will read,” said Papa Menzies, with proper Jewish
insight; and his daughter added, with proper Socialist fervor,
“If we really believe in our cause, we won’t mind a little
ridicule.” It was a call to martyrdom, and one after another
they responded—though not without qualms.</p>

<p class="pindent">So, promptly at eight-thirty next morning, the campus
in front of the Assembly building beheld a sight, the like
of which had never thrilled the student body of S. P. U.
since the first days of the Methodist Sunday-school. The
discoverer and heir-apparent of the Ross Junior oil field
turned into a newsboy! Standing on a bench, with an armful
of papers, shouting gaily, “The Investigator! First issue of
the Investigator! Five cents a copy!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Did they buy them? Oh, ask! They crowded around
Bunny three deep, he couldn’t make the change fast enough;
as the excitement spread, they crowded six deep, ten deep—it
was a mob, a riot! Everywhere, all over the campus, men
and women, seeing the throng, came running. An accident?
A fight? What was the matter? People who got their copies
and drew out of the crowd, became centres of minor disturbances,
others trying to see over their shoulders, asking questions.</p>

<p class="pindent">For just about ten minutes this went on; until from the
Administration building there emerged, portly and dignified,
with gold nose-glasses and a roll of fat around his neck—just
such a personage as you would meet in any big real estate
office or bank in the city—Reginald T. Squirge, Ph. D., Dean
of Men. Quietly and masterfully he penetrated the throng,
and quietly and masterfully he took charge of the millionaire
newsboy, and conducted him into his private office, still clutching
his armful of papers. “Wait here,” he commanded, and
again went out, and returned with Peter Nagle; a third time
he went out, and his prey was Gregor Nikolaieff; while at his
heels came deputy deans, appointed ad hoc, escorting the other
criminals.</p>

<p class="pindent">How many copies had been sold no one could say; the unsold
copies were stacked in a corner of the Dean’s office, and
if they were ever counted the result was not made known.
But enough had been distributed to set the campus ablaze.
“Have you read it?” “Have you got a copy?”—that was all
anybody heard that day. The price of “The Investigator”
leaped to one dollar, and before nightfall some had sold for
two or three times that price.</p>

<p class="pindent">One reason was that a copy had reached the Angel City
“Evening Booster,” most popular of newspapers, printed in
green, five editions per day. The second edition, on the streets
about noon, carried a “streamer head” across the front page:</p>

<div class="lgc" style="margin-top:1em;margin-bottom:1em;"> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class="line"><span class="sc">Red Nest at University!</span></p>
<p class="line"> </p>
<p class="line"><span class="it">Bolshevik Propaganda at S. P. U.</span></p>
</div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class="pindent">There followed a two-column story, carried over to page
fourteen, giving a lurid account of “The Investigator’s” contents,
including the most startling of the facts about the hiring
of athletes for the university, and the whole text of the satiric
poem about God—but alas, only a very brief hint as to what
Harry Seager had told about Siberia. A little later in the day
came the rivals of the “Evening Booster,” the “Evening
Roarer” and the “Evening Howler”; they had been scooped
one whole edition, but they made up for it by a mass of new
details, some collected by telephone, the rest made up in the
editorial offices. Said the “Evening Roarer”:</p>

<div class="lgc" style="margin-top:1em;margin-bottom:1em;"> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class="line"><span class="sc">Red College Plot Unearthed</span></p>
</div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class="noindent">and it went on to tell how the police were seeking Russian
agents who had made use of Southern Pacific students to get
their propaganda into print. The “Evening Howler,” which
went in especially for “human interest stuff,” featured the
ring-leader of the conspiracy:</p>

<div class="lgc" style="margin-top:1em;margin-bottom:1em;"> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class="line"><span class="sc">Millionaire Red in College!</span></p>
<p class="line"> </p>
<p class="line"><span class="it">Son of Oil Magnate Backs Soviets!</span></p>
</div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class="noindent">And it scooped its rivals by having a photograph of Bunny,
which it had got by rushing a man to the Ross home, and
informing Aunt Emma that Bunny had just been awarded a
prize for the best scholarship record in ten years. The good
lady was so excited, she sent the butler out to the corner drug-store
three times, to see if the “Evening Howler” had arrived
with the story of that prize!</p>

<h3>IX</h3>

<p class="pindent">In the ordinary course of events this newspaper excitement
would have lasted thirty-two hours. Next afternoon’s
papers would have recorded the fact that the university authorities
had banned “The Investigator,” and on the following day
their streamer-heads would have proclaimed, “Film Star
Divorces Champ,” or “Magnate’s Wife Elopes with Cop.”</p>

<p class="pindent">But fate had prepared a fantastic torment for the “parlor
reds” of S. P. U. On the morning after their flyer in publicity,
it chanced that a wagon loaded with blasting material,
making its way through Wall Street with customary indifference
to municipal ordinances, met with a collision and
exploded. The accident happened in front of the banking
offices of Morgan and Company, and about a dozen people
were killed. A few minutes after the accident, the bankers
called in America’s sleuth-celebrity to solve the mystery; and
this able business man, facing the situation that if it was
an accident it was nothing, while if it was a Bolshevik plot
it was several hundred thousand dollars, took three minutes
to look about him, and then pronounced it a plot.</p>

<p class="pindent">And forthwith throughout the world a horde of spies and
informers went to work, knowing that if he or she could
find or invent a clue, it was fame and fortune for him or
her. A wave of witch-hunting swept the country, and other
countries—for two or three years thereafter new discoveries
would be made, and new “revelations” promised, and poor
devils in Polish and Roumanian dungeons would have their
arms twisted out of joint and their testicles macerated, while
eager newspaper readers in New York and Chicago and Angel
City waited ravenously for promised thrills.</p>

<p class="pindent">As for the Angel City “Evening Booster” and “Evening
Howler” and “Evening Roarer,” the situation confronting them
was this: if they could connect the Bolshevik conspiracy in
Southern Pacific University with the bomb explosion in Wall
Street, they would have several hundred dollars’ additional
sales; while if they failed to make the connection, they would
lose this amount to some more clever rival. This being the
case, it took the “Evening Howler” about one hour to remember
that “The Investigator” had featured Harry Seager,
and to ascertain from the agents of the American Defense
League that at a recent mass-meeting this Seager had fiercely
denounced the firm of Morgan and Company, and predicted a
dire fate for them. So, in its third edition, on the streets
about one o’clock, the “Evening Howler” told the world:</p>

<div class="lgc" style="margin-top:1em;margin-bottom:1em;"> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class="line"><span class="sc">Bomb Foretold by Red Aid</span></p>
<p class="line"> </p>
<p class="line"><span class="it">Police Seek Soviet Agent Here</span></p>
</div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class="pindent">That was taking a chance, as the headline writer of the
“Evening Howler” would have admitted with a grin; but he
knew his business, and sure enough, before the day was by,
a war veteran came into the editorial office with confirmation.
Two days ago he had ridden on a public stage with Harry
Seager, and had got into conversation, and heard the sentence:
“You mark my words and watch the papers, within three
days you will read that the House of Morgan has paid for its
crimes in this war.” It is only fair to the shell-shocked soldier
to add that he may have been sincere in his statement, for it
happened that the two men in their conversation had touched
upon the Polish invasion of Russia, then at its height, and
Seager had uttered the sentence, “You mark my words and
watch the papers, within three days you will read that the
Poles are back of where they are now.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Prior to this incident, the office door of the Seager Business
College had been chewed to a ragged edge by the chisels
of detectives and other patriots breaking their way in at night;
but on the night after this “bomb expose” they used an axe,
and when Seager arrived in the morning he found every desk-drawer
in the place, not merely his own, but the students’,
dumped onto the floor, and trampled beneath the hob-nailed
boots of patriotism. They had carted off, not merely Seager’s
notes for his orations, but likewise the typewriting exercises
of his students—and most damaging evidence they afforded,
too, for Seager did not make his students write, “The quick
brown fox jumps over the lazy dog,”—no, siree, he gave them
revolutionary propaganda that would send shivers down the
spine of any patriot: “All men are created free and equal,”
or, more desperate yet, “Give me liberty or give me death!”</p>

<h3>X</h3>

<p class="pindent">Not many in Southern Pacific University seriously believed
that their “student reds” had any responsibility for or even
guilty knowledge of the Wall Street bomb explosion. But
they knew that these silly fools had been misled by sinister
men who quite possibly did have part in the plot, or anyhow
were bad enough to have it. Also they knew that the fools
had got the university in for a lot of hideous publicity. So
the fools were badgered and browbeaten on every hand;
they were summoned to the Dean’s office one by one and
there racked and cross-questioned—and not merely by President
Cowper and Dean Squirge, but by various stern gentlemen
representing the district attorney and the city prosecutor
and the federal secret service and the patriotic newspapers
and the defense societies and the information service of the
once-upon-a-time ambassador of a no-longer-existing Russian
government.</p>

<p class="pindent">When Bunny Ross realized that this was happening, there
was another explosion. Being a rich man’s son, he was accustomed
to having his rights, and more. So of the first of his
questioners he demanded, “Who are you, and what brings you
into this?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Now, Ross,” said Dean Squirge, “if there are evil men
threatening our country’s welfare, you certainly do not wish
to protect them.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It depends on what you mean by evil,” retorted Bunny.
“If you mean men who are trying to tell the truth, I wish to
protect them all I can.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“All we want to know is, what you know about a man
called Paul Watkins.”</p>

<p class="pindent">So there it was; either Bunny must submit to being
cross-questioned by detectives, or else he must have everybody
decide that he was hiding some dark secrets about Paul.
Said he: “Paul Watkins is my best friend. I have known
him for seven or eight years. He is the straightest man I
have ever known, bar none. He has come home sick, after a
year and a half in the army in Siberia. He could claim an
allowance from the government if he wasn’t too proud. What
he did to me was to tell me what he saw with his own eyes,
and I believe every word of it. And I am going to tell it to
other people, inside the university or out, and no one is going
to stop me.”</p>

<p class="pindent">So that was that, and Bunny was excused for the present.
They would tackle the less wealthy conspirators—beginning
with Peter Nagle, most guilty of all, because his name had
appeared on the paper as editor. Peter was commanded forthwith
to recant his impoliteness to God, and he swore by
God that he wouldn’t; so the “Evening Howler” carried a two-column
head:</p>

<p class="line" style="text-align:center;margin-top:1em;margin-bottom:1em;"><span class="sc">Student Red Let Out</span></p>

<p class="noindent">And Peter grinned and said for the rest of the bunch not to
worry, he was going into the plumbing business and get his
revenge on society; and when he had made some money he
would publish a paper of his own and kid the life out of
God every week.</p>

<p class="pindent">And then came the turn of Rachel Menzies. She had
been warned by Bunny as to the secret agents, and had promised
to give them a piece of her mind; but they had a way
to break her nerve. Just what had been her father’s share
in this conspiracy? They had ascertained that Papa Menzies
had been born in Poland, and under the new deportation
laws it didn’t matter what you believed or what you had
done, they would cancel your naturalization papers, and grab
you and ship you away, leaving your family behind to starve,
if it so happened. You had no trial, and no recourse of any
sort. And furthermore, if a man was dumped into Poland
with the red tag on him these days, no trial was held and
no questions were asked—he was stood against a wall and
shot.</p>

<p class="pindent">So there was Rachel, bursting into tears before these
strangers and declaring that her father was a Socialist and
not a Communist—as if that meant anything to any patriot!
Hadn’t the Socialists been opposing the war right along? And
wasn’t it a fact that the country had an attorney-general who
was intriguing to get the nomination for president at the next
Democratic convention, and was basing his claim to that distinction
upon his valiant campaign to put down the red menace?</p>

<p class="pindent">Rachel telephoned to Bunny, and he hopped into his car
and paid a call on President Alonzo T. Cowper, D.D., Ph.D.,
LL.D., at that worthy’s private residence in the evening, contrary
to the established etiquette of the university. He began
by stating his own decision—he was willing to agree to make
no more public “propaganda” during his stay in the university;
but he wanted to add this, if the authorities permitted
Mr. Menzies to suffer deportation as punishment for his daughter’s
having written a review of a lecture—then he, Bunny
Ross, was going on the war-path, and use some of his father’s
money to blow things wide open before he quit Southern
Pacific.</p>

<p class="pindent">The reverend doctor’s round clerical face had grown rosy
to the roots of his snow-white hair as he listened to this
scarcely veiled blackmail. “Young man,” said he, “you seem
to overlook the fact that the university authorities have nothing
to do with the decisions of the United States government.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Dr. Cowper,” responded the young man, “I learned from
my father to go to headquarters when I want things done. I
know that if you tell these defense idiots that you want this
matter dropped, they will drop it. And I want to say that
while I have never met Mr. Menzies, I know his daughter, and
she brought us his ideas at different times, and he believes in
democracy and in educating the people—every bit of advice he
sent us was along that line. He belongs to the right wing
group among the Socialists, and is opposing the Bolsheviks in
the movement. You must know enough about the situation to
realize that that is not the sort of people we are supposed to be
deporting.”</p>

<p class="pindent">It turned out that Dr. Cowper really didn’t know that much,
but was willing to learn. It was rather comical; underneath
the indignation he was officially obliged to feel, the old gentleman
had an unholy curiosity about these strange new ideas
that had seduced his prize millionaire sophomore. So here was
Bunny telling him about Paul Watkins, and about Harry
Seager, what sort of people they were, and what they had seen
in Siberia, and what they thought about it, and what Bunny
thought. The doctor asked the most naive and childish questions,
but he did try to understand, and Bunny gave him a complete
lecture on Bolshevism versus Socialism lasting two hours.
At the end the prize millionaire sophomore was sent away with
a pat on the back, and the assurance that Papa Menzies would
not be deported so long as he behaved himself; plus a solemn
warning that whereas mature minds such as Dr. Cowper’s were
equipped to deal with these dangerous new thoughts, the immature
minds of the students were not to be trusted with them!</p>

<h3>XI</h3>

<p class="pindent">There was an interview to be had with Henrietta Ashleigh.
It was not so painful as Bunny had feared, because she hid
her grief under a cloak of dignity. “I am sorry, Arnold, but
I am beginning to fear there is something in you that enjoys
this crude notoriety.” Bunny tried to be humble and accept
this rebuke, but he couldn’t; there was something in him that
was bored by Henrietta’s ideas; and when you are bored, you
can no longer keep up romantic imaginings about a girl.</p>

<p class="pindent">And then the folks at home! First, Aunt Emma, horrified
tearful, and completely muddled. Bunny had not got that prize
after all! Aunt Emma had somehow got it fixed in her head
that there had been a prize, and that Bunny might have got it
if it had not been for the reds. This awful peril of Bolshevik
agents, right in one’s home! Aunt Emma had heard hair-raising
stories from lecturers to her club-ladies, but had never
dreamed that these emissaries of Satan might be seducing her
darling nephew! “Watch out, auntie!” said the nephew. “You
may be next!”</p>

<p class="pindent">And then Bertie. Bertie was just wild! She had been
invited to a house-party of the very desirable Atherton-Stewarts,
but now she would be ashamed to show her face among
decent people. That was the way every time, no sooner did
she achieve a social triumph, than Bunny came along and made
one of his stinks. It was the most disgusting thing that could
have happened, it showed his tastes were naturally low. Bertie
and Bunny were quite fond of each other, and called each other
violent names with true brotherly and sisterly frankness.</p>

<p class="pindent">Finally Dad, who was a perfect brick; never said a word,
nor asked a question, and when Bunny started to explain, he
said, “That’s all right, son, I know just how it happened.”
And that was true; he knew Paul and Harry Seager, he had
been inside his boy’s mind. And he knew the tragedy of life,
that each generation has to make its own mistakes.</p>

<p class="pindent">The uproar died away surprisingly soon. In a few days
Bunny’s class-mates were “joshing” him, it was all a joke. There
was only one serious consequence, that Mr. Daniel Webster
Irving received a letter from President Cowper, advising him
in advance, as a matter of courtesy, that his contract with
Southern Pacific University would not be renewed for next
year. The instructor showed it to Bunny, with a dry smile;
and Bunny was enraged, and wanted to blackmail the reverend
doctor a second time. But Mr. Irving said to forget it, there
were too many ways to make life miserable for a teacher who
wasn’t wanted. He would file his references with the employment
agencies, and write a lot of letters, and move on to pastures
new. “That is,” he added, “assuming I can get something.
They have a pretty tight organization, and I may find
I’m blacklisted for good.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“How do you suppose they got on to you, Mr. Irving?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It was bound to happen,” said the other. “They have so
many spies.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But we have been so careful! We’ve never mentioned
your name, except among our own little group!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“They’ve probably got a spy right among you.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“A student, you mean?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Of course.” And smiling at Bunny’s incredulity, Mr.
Irving reached into his desk and pulled out a mimeographed
sheet of paper. “This was handed to me by a business friend
of mine,” he said.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was one of the weekly bulletins of the “Improve America
League,” a propaganda organization of the business men
of Angel City. It explained how they had their agents at work
in colleges and high schools, training students to watch their
teachers and fellow students, and report any signs of the red
menace. The league boasted its fund of a hundred and sixty
thousand dollars a year for the next five years. So here was
another chunk of reality, falling with a dull sickening thud
upon the head of a young idealist! Bunny sat, running over
in his mind the members of the little group. “Who could it
be?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Said Mr. Irving: “Some one who was very ‘red,’ you can
be sure. That is how it works—a man is looking for something
to report, and when it’s too slow making its appearance,
he’s tempted to help it along. So the spy almost always becomes
a provocateur. You can tell him by the fact that he
talks a lot and does nothing—he can’t afford to have it said that
he was a leader.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“By God!” cried Bunny. “He promised to help us sell
those papers, and then he didn’t show up!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Who is that?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Billy George. We never could be red enough to suit him!
He was the cause of that fool poem of Peter Nagle’s going
into the paper. And now he’s dropped clean out—he wasn’t
mentioned in the scandal.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Mr. Irving smiled. “Well, Ross, you’ve seen the white
terror in action! You’ll find it helps you to understand world
history. Fortunately, you’re rich, so it was just a joke. But
don’t forget—if you’d been a poor Russian Jew in the slums,
you’d be in jail now, with ten thousand dollars bail, and ten
or twenty years in state’s prison for your destiny. If you had
happened to live in Poland or Finland or Roumania, you and
all your little bunch would have been buried in one muddy
trench a week ago!”</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XII<br /> <span class="sub-head">THE SIREN</span></h1></div>

<h3>I</h3>

<p class="pindent">Springtime had come again, and Bunny was finishing his
second year at Southern Pacific. But the bloom was now
worn off the peach; he no longer took the great institution at
its own valuation. He knew that the courses were dull, and that
they taught you masses of facts of little importance, and were
afraid of new and original thinking. The one thing he had got
was a clue to some worthwhile books; he wanted to read them—but
you could do that better at home. He was debating
whether he would come back next year.</p>

<p class="pindent">Things were freer at Paradise, it seemed. Paul had gone
back to work as a boss-carpenter for the company; he had
recovered a part of his strength, and was making good money—building
labor was scarce, because the country was making up
for the lost construction of war-time. Ruth was happy again;
at least three of the oil workers were in love with her, but she
would think of no one but her wonderful brother. Paul was
studying again; but not the biology books, all his money now
went for magazines and pamphlets and books that dealt with
the labor struggle. There were a good many returned soldiers
with the company, some of whom had come to think about the
war just as Paul did; twice a week they had regular classes,
reading aloud a chapter from a book and discussing it.</p>

<p class="pindent">So the Rascum cabin became what the Angel City newspapers
were accustomed to describe as a “Bolshevik nest.”
Much as these workingmen might differ about tactics, they
were a unit on the proposition that capital and labor had nothing
in common but a fight. And they made no bones about
saying it; they would start an argument on the job, or while a
bunch of the men were eating their lunch; the echoes would
spread all over the place. There were “wobblies” in the field
also, you would find their literature in the bunk-houses. Dad
must have known about it, but he did nothing; his men had
always been free to say what they pleased, and he would take
his chances. Indeed, he could hardly do anything else, while
every man on the place knew that the discoverer and heir-apparent
of the field was one of the “reddest” of the bunch!</p>

<p class="pindent">Ever since the war, the union of the oil workers had been
recognized and dealt with, as the government had decreed. But
now the hand of Uncle Sam was beginning to relax; the idealistic
President was a semi-invalid in Washington, and in Angel
City the “open shop” crowd were getting ready to bring back
the good old days. At least that was the rumor among the
union officials, and how were they going to meet the employers’
move? The wage agreements expired towards the end of the
year, and this was the issue to which all the arguments of the
oil workers led, whether among the “reds” in Paul’s cabin, or
among the rank and file. Over Bunny’s head the prospect of
another strike hung like a black shadow of doom.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad never gave up longing to have his son take an interest
in the company and its growing activities. And Bunny, always
aware of this loving bond, would study monthly reports of production,
and cost sheets and price schedules, and go out to the
wells that were drilling, and take part in long consultations
with the foremen. Only a few years ago, an oil well had been
to him the most interesting thing in the world; but now cruel
fate had brought it about that one oil well seemed exactly like
another oil well! Number 142 had brought in six hundred
thousand dollars, whereas Number 143 had brought in only
four hundred and fifty thousand. But what difference did it
make, when all you would do with the extra hundred and fifty
thousand was to drill another well?</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad’s answer was kept in stock on the shelves of his mind:
“The world has got to have oil.” But then, you looked at the
world, and saw enormous crowds of people driving to places
where they were no better off than at home! But it would
annoy Dad to have you say that—it was a step outside the
range of his thinking. To Bunny he now seemed like an old
horse in a treadmill; he climbed and climbed, all day long, and
at night he climbed in dreams. But if you should let him out
of the treadmill, he would die—for lack of any reason for
living.</p>

<p class="pindent">So Bunny learned more and more to keep his traitor doubts
to himself; those theories of the “class struggle” that he learned
from Paul and his fellows, and the rumors of a strike that he
read in the oil workers’ journal. Instead, he would take Dad
fishing, and they would pretend they were just as happy as of
old in the bosom of their mother Nature—though the sad truth
was that Dad was too heavy and too stiff in the joints to get
much fun out of scrambling over the rocks.</p>

<h3>II</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny spent his Easter holidays at Paradise, and it happened
that Vernon Roscoe paid a visit to the tract. He had
been there before, but only while Bunny was away; their
meetings so far had been brief ones at the office, amid the
press of business. Bunny had got a general impression of a
big face and a big body and a big voice. Dad said that
“Verne” had also a big heart; but Bunny’s only evidence was
that Mr. Roscoe had patted him on the back, and called him
“Jim Junior,” with great gusto.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now he came; and it happened that a desert wind came
with him, and made a funny combination. As a rule the heat
of the day was endurable at Paradise, and the nights were
always cold and refreshing; but three or four times in a year
the place would be struck by a wind off the desert, and it
would be like a hot hand reaching out and holding you by the
throat. “A hundred and fourteen in the shade and their ain’t
any shade,” was the way the oil workers put it, as they went
on working in the sun, drinking barley water by the quart.
The worst of it was, the hot wind blew all night, and the
houses, which had heated up like furnaces, stayed that way for
three or four days.</p>

<p class="pindent">The “oil magnate,” as the newspapers called Vernon Roscoe,
left Angel City after dinner, and reached the tract just
before midnight. Dad and Bunny were expecting him, sitting
out on the veranda, and he saw them, and his voice started
before the engine of his car stopped. “Hello, Jim! Hello,
Jim Junior! By Jees, what’s this you’re doing to me! Christ
amighty, man, I never felt such heat. Is it going to be
like this tomorrow? By Jees, I think I’ll turn my tail
and run!”</p>

<p class="pindent">He was out of the car, and coming up the path, his face as
round as the moon that shone down on his half-bald head. He
had taken off his coat and shirt, and was in a pink silk under-shirt;
no perspiration, of course, because you were always dry
when you drove in this desert heat—you might stop at a filling
station and stand under a hose and soak yourself, and the wind
would dry everything but your sitting down place in a couple
of minutes.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Hello, Verne,” said Dad; and Bunny said, “How are you
Mr. Roscoe?” He was careful to get a grip on the magnate’s
paw before the magnate got a grip on his—for he would make
the bones crunch with his mighty grasp. He had been a cattle-puncher
back in Oklahoma, and it was said that he had grabbed
a Mexican horse-thief with his two hands and bent him backwards
until he broke. He still had that strength, in spite of
his rolls of fat.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’m hot as hell,” he said, answering Bunny’s polite inquiry.
“Say, Jim, do you think I’d better stay?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You’ve got to stay,” said Dad. “I’m not going ahead with
development on that Bandy tract till you’ve looked the field
over. We’ll sit you on ice.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Has my beer come? Hey, there, Kuno”—this to the Jap,
who was grinning in the doorway. “Bring me some of my
beer! Bring me a bucketful—a tubful. By Jees, I brought
some in my car—I wouldn’t take a chance. Did you hear what
happened to Pete O’Reilly? Damn fool tried to come across
the border with a crate of whiskey in his car; told me it cost
him a hundred dollars a quart before he got through! Christ
amighty, Verne, how do you stand this?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, for one thing, I drink lemonade instead of beer.”
This was a reform which Bunny had imposed upon his father,
and now Dad was very proud of it.</p>

<p class="pindent">“No pop for me!” said Verne. “By Jees, I’ll have my suds
in the bath-tub. Any women about, Verne?” And Mr. Roscoe
kicked off his shoes and his trousers, and sat himself under an
electric fan. “The damn thing blows hot air!” he said; and
then he looked at Bunny. “Well, here’s our boy Bolsheviki!
Where’s the red flag?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Now Bunny was expecting to reach the impressive age of
twenty-one in a month or two, and he had heard all possible
variations on this “Bolsheviki” joke. But he was host, and had
to smile. “I see you read the papers.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Say, kiddo, you made the front page all right! It did me
a lot of good in some negotiations. Come down to the office
and I’ll introduce you to a Soviet commissar in disguise; they’re
trying to sell me a concession in the Urals. ‘Where the hell is
that?’ I says; but it seems there is really such a place, unless
they have forged some atlases. The guy started to pull this
brotherhood of man stuff on me, and I says, ‘Sure, I’m great
on that dope,’ I says. ‘The junior member of our firm is in
the business! Look at this, by Jees,’ and I showed him the
papers, and we’ve been ‘Tovarish’ ever since!”</p>

<h3>III</h3>

<p class="pindent">Well, Tovarish Roscoe went to bed, in Nile green silk
pajamas on a cot out in the court alongside the fountain; and
at five in the morning they woke him, so that he might go out
with Dad and the geologist and the engineer, to O. K. the plans
for the Bandy tract. He came back with the sunrise in his
eyes, puffing and snorting, and yelling for beer instead of
breakfast, and how would he get some more when this gave
out? They persuaded him that he must not try to cross the
desert until the sun went down, so he and Dad and Bunny
retired into the living-room, and shut all the doors and windows,
to stick it out as best they could.</p>

<p class="pindent">Well, the sun got to work on the roof and walls of that
house, and every ten minutes the great man would get up and
look at the thermometer and emit another string of mule-skinner’s
technicalities. By the middle of the morning he was
frantic; declaring that surely there must be some way to cool
a house. By Jees, let’s get a hose and soak this room! But
Bunny, who had studied physics, said that would only shift
them from the climate of the desert to the climate of the
Congo river. Mr. Roscoe suggested turning the hose on the
veranda and the roof; and Bunny called the gardener boy,
and pretty soon there were half a dozen sprinklers going, a
regular rain-storm over the doors and windows of the living-room.</p>

<p class="pindent">But that was not enough, so Dad went to the phone and
called up the foreman of the sheet metal shop, and he said
sure thing, he could design a refrigerator; and Dad said to
drop everything else and build one, and he’d pay the men a
dollar apiece extra if they finished it inside an hour. So
here came four fellows with a truck and a big metal box
with double walls all the way from the floor to the ceiling;
and they cut a hole in the floor for a vent-pipe, and brought
in about half a ton of cracked ice from the ice-plant, and a
couple of sacks of salt, and in a few minutes the thermometer
showed a zero wind blowing out from the bottom of that
box. The great man moved over close to it, and in a little
while he began to sigh with content, and in half an hour he
gave a loud “Kerchoo!” and they all roared with laughter.</p>

<p class="pindent">After that he was sleepy, with all the beer he had drunk,
and had a nap on the lounge, while Dad went out to see to the
drilling. And then the party had lunch, and Mr. Roscoe had
another nap, after which he felt fine, and did a lot of talking,
and Bunny learned some more about the world in which he
lived. “Jim,” said the “magnate,” “I want two hundred thousand
dollars of your money.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Where’s your gun?” said Dad, amiably.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You’ll get it back many times over. It’s a little fund
we’re raising, me and Pete O’Reilly and Fred Orpan. We
can’t talk about it except to a few.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What is it, Verne?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, we’re getting ready for the Republican convention,
and by Jees, it’s not going to be any god-damn snivelling long-faced
college professor! We’re going to get a round-faced
man, like you and me, Jim! I’m going on to Chicago and pick
him out.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You got anybody in mind?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’m negotiating with a fellow from Ohio, Barney Brockway,
that runs the party there. He wants us to take their
Senator Harding; big chap with a fine presence, good orator
and all that, and can be trusted—he’s been governor there,
and does what he’s told. Brockway thinks he can put him
over with two or three million, and he’ll pledge us the secretary
of the interior.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I see,” said Dad—not having to ask what that meant.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’ve got my eye on a tract—been watching it the last ten
years, and it’s a wonder. Excelsior Pete put down two test
wells, and then they capped them and hushed it up; there
was a government report that mentioned it, but they had
it suppressed and you can’t get a copy anywhere—but I
had one stolen for me. There’s about forty thousand
acres, all oil.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But how can you get it away from Excelsior?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“The government has taken the whole district—supposed
to be an oil reserve for the navy. But what the hell use will
it be to the navy, with no developments? The damn fools think
you can drill wells and build pipe-lines and storage tanks
while Congress is voting a declaration of war. Let us get in
there and get out the oil, and we’ll sell the navy all they
want.”</p>

<p class="pindent">That was Dad’s doctrine, so there was nothing to discuss.
He laughed, and said, “You’d better be on the safe
side, Verne, and get the attorney-general as well as the secretary
of the interior.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I thought of that,” said the other, not noticing the laugh.
“Barney Brockway will be the attorney-general himself.
That’s a part of his bargain with Harding.”</p>

<p class="pindent">And then all at once Mr. Roscoe recollected Bunny, sitting
over by the window, supposed to be reading a book.
“I suppose our boy Bolsheviki will understand, this ain’t for
use on the soap-box.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad answered, quickly, “Bunny has known about my affairs
ever since he was knee-high to a grass-hopper. All right, Verne,
I’ll send you a check when you’re ready.”</p>

<h3>IV</h3>

<p class="pindent">The sun went down, and it was time for Mr. Roscoe to
make his get-away. But first he had dinner; and when he was
through with his ice-cream and coffee, he pushed his plate
away, and took his napkin out of his neck, and leaned back
in his chair with a sigh of content; and while he was unrolling
his cigar from its gold foil, he fixed his shrewd eyes
upon Bunny across the table, and said, “Jim Junior, I’ll tell
you what’s the matter with you.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“All right,” said Jim Junior, receptively.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You’re a nice kid, but you’re too god-damn serious. You
take life too hard—you and your old man both. You got to
get a little fun as you go along, and I know what you need.
You got a girl, kid?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Not right now,” said Bunny, blushing a trifle.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I thought so. You need one, to take you out and cheer
you up. Mind you, I don’t mean one of these jazz-babies—get
a girl that’s got some sense, like my Annabelle. You
know Annabelle Ames?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’ve never met her. I’ve seen her, of course.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Did you see her in ‘Madame Tee-Zee’? By Jees, that’s
what I call a picture—only one I ever made any money out
of, by the way! Well, that girl takes care of me like a
mother—if she’d been up here, I wouldn’t ’a drunk all that
beer, you bet! You come up to my place some time, and
Annabelle’ll find you a girl—lots of ’em up there, with the
ginger in ’em, too, and she’s a regular little match-maker—never
so happy as when she’s pairing ’em off, two little
love-birds in a cage. Why don’t you drive back with
me now?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’ve got to go to college the day after tomorrow,” said
Bunny.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, you come some time, and bring the old man along.
That’s what he needs too, a girl—I’ve told him so a dozen
times. You got a girl yet, Jim? By Jees, look at him blush,
the old maid in pants! I could tell the kid some things about
you that would bust the rouge-pots in your cheeks—hey, old
skeezicks?” And the great man, who had been getting out of
his chair as he discoursed, fetched Dad a couple of thumps on
the back and burst into a roar of laughter.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was things like that that made you know Vernon Roscoe
had a “big heart.” He seemed to have really taken a fancy
to Bunny, and was concerned that he should learn to enjoy
life. “You come see me some time, kiddo,” he said, as he
was loading himself into his big limousine. “Don’t you forget
it now, I mean it. I’ll show you what a country place can
be like, and you make the old man get one too.” And Bunny
said all right, he would come; and the engine began to purr,
and the car rolled off in the moonlight, and the big laughing
voice died away among the hills. “So long, kiddo!”</p>

<h3>V</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny came back into the house, and followed Dad into
his study and shut the door. “Dad, are you really going to
put up that money with Mr. Roscoe?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Why, sure, son, I got to; why not?” Dad looked genuinely
surprised—as he always did in these cases. You could
never be sure how much of it was acting, for he was sly as
the devil, and not above using his arts on those he loved.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Dad, you’re proposing to buy the presidency of the United
States!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, son, you can put it that way—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But that’s what it <span class="it">is</span>, Dad!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, that’s one way to say it. Another is that we’re
protecting ourselves against rivals that want to put us out of
business. If we don’t take care of politics, we’ll wake up
after election and find we’re done for. There’s a bunch of
big fellows in the East have put up a couple of millions to
put General Leonard Wood across. Are you rooting for
him?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny understood that this was a rhetorical question, and
did not answer it. “It’s such a dirty game, Dad!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I know, but it’s the only game there is. Of course, I can
quit, and have enough to live on, but I don’t feel like being
laid on the shelf, son.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Couldn’t we just run our own business, Dad?” It was,
you may remember, a question Bunny had asked before.</p>

<p class="pindent">“There’s no such thing, son—they’re jist crowding you all
the time. They block you at the refineries, they block you at
the markets, they block you in the banks—I don’t tell you
much about it, because it’s troubles, but there’s jist no place
in the business world for the little feller any more. You
think I’m a big feller because I got twenty million, and I think
Verne is a big feller because he’s got fifty; but there’s Excelsior
Pete—thirty or forty companies, all working as one—that’s
close to a billion dollars you’re up against. And there’s
Victor, three or four hundred million more, and all the banks
and insurance company resources behind them—what chance
have we independents got? Look at this slump in the price
of gas right now—the newspapers tell you there’s a glut, but
that’s all rot—what makes the glut, but the Big Five dumping
onto the market to break the little fellers? Why, they’re jist
wiping ’em off the slate!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But how can public officials prevent that?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“There’s a thousand things that come up, son—we got to
land the first wallop—right at the sound of the bell! How do
we get pipe-line right-o’-ways? How do we get terminal facilities?
You saw how it was when we came into Paradise; would
we ever ’a got this development if I hadn’t ’a paid Jake
Coffey? Where would Verne and me be right now, if we didn’t
sit down with him and go over the slate, and make sure the
fellers he puts on it are right? And now—what’s the difference?
Jist this, we got bigger, we’re playin’ the game on a
national scale—that’s all. If Verne and me and Pete O’Reilly
and Fred Orpan can get the tracts we got our eyes on, well,
there’ll be the Big Six or Big Seven or Big Eight in the oil-game,
that’s all—and you set this down for sure, son, we’ll be
doin’ what the other fellers done, from the day that petroleum
came into use, fifty years ago.”</p>

<p class="pindent">They were on an old familiar trail now, and Bunny knew
the landscape by heart.</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’s all very well for a feller to go off in his study and
figure out how the world ought to be; but that don’t make
it that way, son. There has got to be oil, and we fellers that
know how to get it out of the ground are the ones that are
doing it. You listen to these Socialists and Bolshevikis, but
my God, imagine if the government was to start buying oil lands
and developing them—there’d be more graft than all the
wealth of America could pay for. I’m on the inside, where
I can watch it, and I know that when you turn over anything
to the government, you might jist as good bury it ten thousand
miles deep in the earth. You talk about laws, but there’s
economic laws, too, and government can’t stand against them,
no more than anybody else. When government does fool
things, then people find a way to get round it, and business
men that do it are no more to blame than any other kind of
men. This is an oil age, and when you try to shut oil off from
production, it’s jist like you tried to dam Niagara falls.”</p>

<p class="pindent">It was a critical moment in their lives. In after years
Bunny would look back upon it, and think, oh why had he
not put his foot down? He could have broken his father, if
he had been determined enough! If he had said, “Dad, I will
not stand for buying the presidency; and if you go in with
Mr. Roscoe on that deal, you’ve got to know that I renounce
my inheritance, I will not touch a cent of your money from
this day on. I’ll go out and get myself a job, and you can
leave your money to Bertie if you want to.” Yes, if he had
said that, Dad would have given way; he would have been
mortally hurt, and Mr. Roscoe would have been hurt, but Dad
would not have helped to nominate Senator Harding.</p>

<p class="pindent">Why didn’t Bunny do it? It wasn’t cowardice—he didn’t
know enough about life as yet to be afraid of it. He had
never earned a dollar in his life, yet he had the serene conviction
that he could go out and “get a job,” and provide for
himself those comforts and luxuries that were a matter of
course to him. But the trouble was, he couldn’t bear to hurt
people. It was what Paul meant when he said that Bunny
was “soft.” He entered too easily into other people’s point
of view. He saw too clearly why Dad and Mr. Roscoe wanted
to buy the Republican convention; and then, a few hours later,
he would go over to the Rascum cabin, and sit down with Paul
and “Bud” Stoner and “Jick” Duggan and the rest of the
“Bolshevik bunch,” and see too clearly why they wanted the
oil workers to organize and educate themselves, and take over
the oil wells from Dad and Mr. Roscoe!</p>

<h3>VI</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny went back to Southern Pacific, and just as he was
finishing his year’s work, the convention of the Republican
party met in Chicago, a thousand delegates and as many alternates,
and as many newspaper correspondents and special
writers, to tell the world about this mighty historic event.
The convention listened to impressive “key-note” speeches,
and smoked enormous quantities of tobacco, and drank enormous
quantities of bootleg liquor; and meantime, in a room
in the Blackstone Hotel, the half-dozen bosses who controlled
the votes sat down to make their deals. In the millions of
words that went out over the wires concerning the convention,
the name of Vernon Roscoe was never mentioned; but he had
his suite adjoining that hotel room, and he made exactly the
right offers, and paid his certified checks to exactly the right
men, and after a long deadlock and the taking of eight ballots,
amid wild excitement on the convention floor, the support
of General Leonard Wood began suddenly to crumble, and
on the ninth ballot Warren Gamaliel Harding of Ohio became
the Republican party’s standard-bearer.</p>

<p class="pindent">College was over; and Gregor Nikolaieff went up to San
Francisco to ship on one of the vessels of the “canning fleet,”
which went up to Alaska to catch and pack salmon. Rachel
Menzies and her brother joined three other Jewish students
who had equipped themselves with a battered Ford car, to
follow the fruit-picking; moving from place to place, sleeping
under the stars, and gathering apricots, peaches, prunes and
grapes for the canners and driers. Bunny was the only one
of the little group of “reds” who did not have to work all
summer; and he was the only one who didn’t know what to
do with himself.</p>

<p class="pindent">In the old days, when he and Dad were drilling one well
at a time, Bunny would pitch in and help at anything there
was to do; he was only a “kid” then, and the men liked it.
But now he was of age, and supposed to be dignified; the company
was of age, too, a huge machine in which every cog had
its place, and must not be interfered with. Bunny could not
even cultivate the plants at home without trespassing on the
job of the gardener! He had resolved to study some of Paul’s
books; but he had never heard of anyone studying eight hours
a day, and he couldn’t take Paul’s job for part of the time,
because he wasn’t a good enough carpenter!</p>

<p class="pindent">It was a world in which some people worked all the time,
and others played all the time. To work all the time was a
bore, and no one would do it unless he had to; but to play
all the time was equally a bore, and the people who did it
never had anything to talk about that Bunny wanted to listen
to. They talked about their play, just as solemnly as if it
had been work: tennis tournaments, golf tournaments, polo
matches—all sorts of complicated ways of hitting a little ball
about a field! Now, it was all right, when you needed exercise
and recreation, to go out and hit a little ball; but to make
a life-work of it, to give all your time and thought to it, to
practice it religiously, read and write books about it, discuss
it for hours on end—Bunny looked at these fully grown men
and women, with their elaborate outfits of “sport clothes,”
and it seemed to him they must be exercising a kind of hypnosis
upon themselves, to make themselves believe that they
were really enjoying their lives.</p>

<h3>VII</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bertie came along, making one more effort to drag her
brother out into this play world, to which by right of inheritance
and natural gifts he belonged. Bertie had broken off
her affair with Eldon Burdick. He was a “dud,” she told
Bunny, and always wanting to have his own way. There was
another affair on, a very desperate one, Bunny gathered, since
his sister exposed her feelings even to him. It was the only
son of the late August Norman, founder of Occidental Steel;
the boy’s name was Charlie, and he was a little wild, Bertie
said, but oh, so fascinating, and rich as Croesus. He had
nobody to take care of him but a rather silly mother, who was
still trying to be young and giddy, dressing like a debutante,
and having surgical operations performed on her face to keep
it from “sagging.” They had a most gorgeous yacht down at
the harbor, and had asked Bertie to bring her brother, and
why wouldn’t he go and help her, as he so easily could, with
his good looks and everything?</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny thought his sister must indeed be hard hit, if she
was counting upon his reluctant social charms! But he went;
and as they drove to the harbor Bertie coached and scolded
him—he must not talk about his horrible Bolshevik ideas, and
if they mentioned his disgrace at Southern Pacific, he must
make a joke of it. Bunny had already learned that that was
the thing to do; and so he did it, and found that it was very
easy, for Charlie Norman was one of those brilliant young
persons who found something funny to say about everything
that came up; if he couldn’t do any better, he would make a
bad pun out of your remark.</p>

<p class="pindent">Here was the “Siren,” a floating mansion, all white paint
and shining brass, finished in hand-carved mahogany, and upholstered
in hand-painted silk. The sailors who shined and
polished, and the Filipino boys who flitted here and there with
trays full of glasses, were spick and span enough for the vaudeville
stage. The party of guests would step into a launch, and
from that into several motor-cars, and be transported to a
golf-links, and from there to a country club for luncheon; they
would dance for an hour or two, and then be whirled away to
a bathing-beach, and then to a tennis-court, and then back to
the “Siren” to dress for dinner, which was served with all the
style you would have expected at an ambassador’s banquet.
There would be many-colored electric lights on the deck, and
an orchestra, and friends would come out in launches, and
dance until dawn, while the waves lapped softly against the
sides of the vessel, and the tangle of lights along the shore
made dim the stars.</p>

<p class="pindent">These people talked about the appearance and peculiarities
and adventures of all their acquaintances, and it was hard to
follow their conversation unless you were one of their set;
they even had slang words of their own, and the less possible
it was for an outsider to understand them, the funnier they
seemed to themselves. They talked about clothes, and what
was going to be the newest “thing.” They talked about their
bootleggers, and who was reliable. For the rest of the time
they talked about the hitting of little balls about a field; the
scores they had made that day and previous days, and the
relative abilities of various experts in the art. Was the tennis-champion
going to hold his own for another year? How were
the American golf players making out in England? Was the
polo team coming from Philadelphia, and would they carry
off the cup? There were beautiful silver and gold-plated trophies
with engraved inscriptions, which helped to hypnotize
you into thinking that the hitting of little balls about a field
was of major importance!</p>

<h3>VIII</h3>

<p class="pindent">Sitting on the deck of this floating mansion, Bunny read
about the famine on the Volga. The crops had failed, over
huge districts, and the peasants were slowly starving; eating
grass and roots, eating their dead babies, migrating in hordes,
and strewing their corpses along the way. It was the last
and final proof of the futility of Communism, said the newspaper
editors; and if Charlie Norman did not take the occasion
to do some “joshing” of Bunny, it was only because
Charlie never read a newspaper.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny had talked with Harry Seager, and got a different
view of famines in Russia. They were caused by drought,
not by Communism; they had been chronic ever since the
dawn of history, and their occurrence had never been taken
as evidence of the futility of Tsarism. Conditions were bad
now, because of the breakdown of the railroads. But people
who blamed that on Communism overlooked the fact that the
railroads had broken down before the revolution; and that
under the Soviet administration they had had to stand the
strain of three years of civil war, and of outside invasion on
twenty-six fronts. Newspapers which had incited these invasions,
and applauded the spending of hundreds of millions
of American money to promote them, now blamed the Bolsheviks
because they were not ready to cope with a famine!</p>

<p class="pindent">You can understand how a young man with such thoughts
in his mind would not fit altogether into this play party. He
tried his best to be like the others, but they found out that
he was different; and presently Charlie’s mother took to sitting
beside him. “Bunny,” she said—for you were Bunny or Bertie
or Baby or Beauty to this crowd as soon as you had played
nine holes of golf and had one drink out of anybody’s hip-pocket
flask—“Bunny, you go to the university, don’t you?
And I’m sure you study some.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Not very much, I fear.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I wish you would tell me how to get Charlie to study
some. I can’t get him to do anything but play and make love
to the girls.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny wanted to say, “Try cutting off his allowance,”
but he realized that that would be one of those “horrid” things
for which Bertie was always rebuking him. So he said, “It’s
quite a problem”—in the style of a diplomat or politician.</p>

<p class="pindent">“The young people are too much of a problem for me,”
said Charlie’s mother. “They want to race about all day, and
they just insist on dragging you with them, and it’s getting
to be more than I can stand.” So then Bunny was sorry for
Charlie’s mother—he had supposed that she did all this “gadding”
because she enjoyed it. To look at her, she was a nautical
maid, plump but shapely, clad in spotless white and blue,
with fluffy brown hair that the breeze was always blowing
into her bright blue eyes. Bunny stole a glance now and then,
and judged that the surgical operations upon her face must
have been successes, for he saw no trace of them.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’ve devoted my whole life to that boy,” the nautical maid
was saying, “and he doesn’t appreciate it a bit. The more you
do for people the more they take it as a matter of course.
This afternoon I think I’ll go on strike! Will you back
me up?”</p>

<p class="pindent">So when the golfing expedition was setting out, Charlie
announced, in a tone loud enough for the whole company,
“Mumsie’s not going—she’s got a crush on Bunny!” At which
they all laughed merrily, and trooped down the ladder, secretly
relieved to be rid of one of the old folks, who insisted on
“tagging along,” and trying to pretend to be one of the crowd,
when it was perfectly evident that they were not and could
not.</p>

<h3>IX</h3>

<p class="pindent">So Bunny and Mrs. Norman sat on the deck of the “Siren,”
in two big canvas chairs under a striped canvas awning, and
sipped fruit juices and chatted about many things. She
wanted to know about his life, and his family; Bunny, having
heard something about the ways of “mumsies,” guessed that
she was investigating Bertie as a possible daughter-in-law, so
he mentioned all the nice things he could. Assuming that she
would not be entirely indifferent to practical matters, he told
about the Ross tract, how he and Dad had discovered it, and
how the wells continued to flow. And Mrs. Norman said,
“Oh, money, money, always money! We all of us have too
much, and don’t know how to buy happiness with it!”</p>

<p class="pindent">She went on to reveal that she was Theosophist, and how
there was a great mahatma coming, and we were all going to
learn to live on a different astral plane. She had noticed that
Bunny, when he stood against a dark background at night,
had a very decided golden aura—had anyone ever mentioned
it to him? It meant that he had a spiritual nature, and was
destined for higher things.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then she began to ask about his ideas; she had heard
nothing about his “disgrace” at the university, apparently, and
he gave her just a hint as to his conviction that there was
something wrong with our social order, the world’s distribution
of wealth. The nautical maid, leaning back among her silken
cushions, replied, “Oh, but that’s all material! And it seems
to me we’re too much slaves to material things already; our
happiness lies in learning to rise above them.”</p>

<p class="pindent">That was a large question, and Bunny dodged it, and presently
Mrs. Norman was talking about herself. Her life was
very unhappy. She had married when she was very young, too
young to know what she was doing, except obeying her parents.
Her husband had been a bad man, he had kept mistresses and
treated her cruelly. She had devoted her life to her son, but
it all seemed a disappointment, the more you gave to people
the more they would take. Charlie was always in love, but he
didn’t really know anything about love, he wasn’t capable of
unselfishness. What did Bunny think about love?</p>

<p class="pindent">This was another large question; and again Bunny ducked.
He said he didn’t know what to think, he saw that people
made themselves unhappy, and he was waiting, trying to learn
more about the matter. So Mrs. Norman proceeded to tell
him more. The dream of love, a really true and great love,
never died in the soul of a man or woman; they might become
cynical, and say they didn’t believe in it, but they were always
unhappy, and secretly hoping and waiting, because really, love
was the greatest thing in the world. It made Mrs. Norman
happy to know that among this loud and noisy generation
there was one young man who was not making himself cheap.</p>

<p class="pindent">The loud and noisy generation came back to the “Siren,”
and cut off these intimacies. Charlie’s “mumsie” went below,
and when she reappeared, it was in the dining-saloon, with
painted panels of Watteau nymphs and shepherds, and seventeenth
century ladies reclining to the lascivious pleasing of a
lute. The hostess was no longer the nautical maid, but instead
a great lady of many charms, a shimmer of pale blue satin,
and a gleam of golden hair, and snowy bosom and shoulders,
and a double rope of pearls. It was a striking transformation,
and Bunny, who had watched Aunt Emma at work, ought to
have understood, but his mind had been on other matters.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mrs. Norman had the young oil man next to her at table;
and when they danced, she asked him would he dance with
her—these horrid young fellows neglected their hostess quite
shamelessly. They danced, and Bunny discovered that she
was a good dancer, and she said that he was an exquisite
dancer, she just adored it, and would he dance some more
with her? Bunny was willing; there was no one else he particularly
wanted to dance with. She had a faint elusive perfume,
and he might have learned about that also from Aunt
Emma, but he had the vague impression that women somehow
naturally smelled that way, and it was very sweet of them.
The steel-widow’s bosom was bare most of the way, and her
back was bare all the way, down to where he put his hand.</p>

<p class="pindent">Charlie teased them, and the rest of the company giggled.
But next morning, when they took a long walk about the deck,
Bunny realized that it took these young people less than twenty-four
hours to get used to anything, and after that it was a
bore. So he sat with Mrs. Norman, and drove with her, and
danced with her, and played golf with her, while Charlie did
all these things with Bertie, and it suited at least three of
them completely.</p>

<h3>X</h3>

<p class="pindent">Then one evening there was something in a magazine that
Bunny wanted to read, and towards midnight he slipped away
to his own cabin, and settled himself in his gold-plated bed,
with hand-embroidered pink silk pillows, and a gold-plated,
or possibly solid gold lamp-stand at his head, and presently
was far away—in Russia seeing the famine stragglers dying
by the roadside, or maybe in Hungary, where they were putting
down the social revolution by the simple plan of slaughtering
everybody who believed in it; using, as always, machine gun
bullets made in American steel mills, and purchased with an
American loan. Bunny was so much absorbed in these unhappy
far-off things, that he did not hear the door of his cabin very
softly opened, nor the key very gently turned on the inside.
The first thing he noticed was the faint elusive sweet odor,
and he gazed upon a vision standing by his bedside, clad in a
purple kimono with huge red hibiscus flowers. The vision
looked timorous, and had its two hands clasped in front of it,
and it whispered in a voice he could hardly hear, “Bunny, may
I talk to you a little?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Of course Bunny had to say that it might; and the vision
sank down on its knees by the bed, and gently one of the soft
hands touched his, and the soft voice trembled, “Bunny, I’m
so lonely and so unhappy! I don’t know if you can understand
what it means to a woman to be so lonely, but you are
the first man I’ve wanted to trust for a long, long time. I
know I shouldn’t come like this, but I have to tell you, and why
shouldn’t men and women be frank with each other?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny didn’t know any reason why they shouldn’t, and
so they were. The substance of the frankness was that the
dream of love had stirred once more in the soul of a woman
who was utterly bewildered about life. He must not think
that she was shallow or light, she had never done anything
like this before, and it was honest—the tears came into her
eyes as she said it, and oh, please, please not to despise her,
she wanted to be happy, and there were so few people you
could love. “Bunny, tell me, are you in love with any other
woman?”</p>

<p class="pindent">It might have been a kindness to tell her that he was; but
this was his first adventure of the sort, and he told the truth,
and it was like sunlight after an April shower, as the smile
shone through her tears. There was a little catch in her voice,
as she whispered, “I’m being silly, the tears will come, and they
make a woman look so ugly, let me put out the light.” So she
pulled the little golden chain, and was no longer the least bit
ugly, but only sweet-smelling, as she clung to his hand with
her two hands, and whispered, “Bunny, do you think you could
love me just a little?”</p>

<p class="pindent">He had to say it, somehow or other. “Mrs. Norman,” he
began—but she stopped him: “Thelma.” He stammered,
“Thelma—I hadn’t thought—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I know, Bunny, I’m older than you; but look at these
flappers, how empty their heads are! And believe me, I really
do care for you, I would do anything for you, give you anything
you wanted.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny learned something from this incident. He knew
that he had only to stretch out his arms and take her; and
he knew what to do—Eunice Hoyt had taught him how to love
a woman. He could have swept her into ecstasy, and from
that hour forth she would have been his slave, he could have
had everything she owned; he might have mistreated her, used
her money to keep other women, but still she would have been
his slave. So now he could understand things that went on
under his eyes, in this world that was a gamblers’ paradise.
There were men who would not share Bunny’s lofty indifference
to luxury and power, but would go in deliberately to
seduce Dame Fortune; turning their bodily charms and social
graces into weapons of prey—there were many names for
them, lounge lizards, parlor snakes, tame cats, Romeos, sheiks.
How many years had old August Norman slaved to build a
great steel plant, and a floating mansion in the ocean, and a
ten times bigger one on the shore; and here all these treasures
were magically incorporated in one feminine body, clad in—well,
the kimono had slid off, and there was a night-dress so
filmy that it was nothing, and a faint sweet odor, and a pair
of soft caressing arms, and lips pressing hot, moist kisses.
“Bunny,” whispered the voice, “I would marry you if you
wanted me to. I would give you everything you asked for.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny had learned from Eunice that when you are disposed
to love, the lips can be seductive; he now learned from
Mrs.—no, Thelma—that when you are not so disposed, they
are repellant. “You know, Thelma,” he pleaded, “I don’t
happen to need anything.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I know, and I’m a horrid vulgar thing. But I’m trying
in my poor blundering way to make you understand that I do
care for you, and you mustn’t think ill of me!”</p>

<p class="pindent">That gave him his lead, and he explained to her that he
would never think ill of her; but he did not love her, he had
thought of her as a friend. And so gradually her clasp relaxed,
and she sank down in a pitiful heap by the bedside, sobbing
that he would be sure to loathe her, he would never want to
see her again. He pleaded that that was not so, there was no
disgrace about it, there was no reason to quarrel because you
did not happen to love. She was so abject, he was sorry for
her, and put out his hand to comfort her; but he saw at once
that this would not do, she had caught his hand and was kissing
it, and he was being tempted by his sympathy. Away back
in the eighteenth century, one of the English poets had announced
the discovery that pity moves the soul to love.</p>

<p class="pindent">One has to think these matters out in advance, and have a
standard of conduct. Bunny had made up his mind that the
next time he embraced a woman, it would be one he truly
loved; and now the clear cold voice of his reason told him
that he did not love Charlie Norman’s mother, it would only
be an intrigue, and neither of them would be happy very long.
So he said, gently, that he thought she had better go; and
slowly and sadly she gathered up the kimono from the
floor, and rose to her feet. “Bunny,” she said, “people have
nasty minds. If they hear about this they will make it
horrid.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Don’t think of that,” he answered. “I shall not tell.”</p>

<p class="pindent">He heard the door softly opened, and softly closed again;
and he turned on the light, and locked the door—never again
would he fail to take that precaution at a house-party! For
a while he paced the floor, thinking over this alarming experience.
He told himself, with becoming modesty, that it wasn’t
because he was irresistibly fascinating; but in this new pagan
civilization women were so startled by an encounter with
chastity, it struck them as something colossal, superhuman.</p>

<p class="pindent">Next morning the nautical maid had her first natural blush
in many years when she encountered the young Adonis on
deck. But she soon got over it, and they talked about Theosophy,
as spiritually as ever, and were perfectly good friends;
he called her Thelma, and Charlie did not even make a joke.
But on the way home Bertie wanted to know all about it, had
Mrs. Norman made love to him, and how much? And when
Bunny blushed, she laughed at him, and was provoked because
he was silly and wouldn’t tell. She decided that of course they
had had an affair. That was all right, there had been other
affairs on board the “Siren”—the lights were dim in the central
hall-way, so that you needn’t be recognized as you flitted from
door to door. “But don’t imagine she’ll ever marry you,”
added Bertie, sagely. “She talks a lot of reincarnation
bunk, but she hangs onto her Occidental Steel bonds for
this incarnation!”</p>

<h3>XI</h3>

<p class="pindent">Occidental Steel had a bad slump in the market a few days
after this, and Bertie was worried—taking a proprietary
interest in the concern. She asked Dad about it, and he said
it was “jist manipulation.” But right away a lot of other
stocks went tumbling, including Ross Consolidated, and then
Dad said there were fools who would gamble and bid stocks
up, and then they had to come down. But the trouble continued
to spread over the country, and there were reports of
big concerns, and even banks, in trouble. There was panic in
the air, and Dad and “Verne” held anxious consultations, and
stopped all their development work, and laid off several hundred
men; “pulling in their horns,” as Dad phrased it. There
was plenty of money in the banks, Dad said, but only the big
fellows had the use of it; “Verne” was in a rage with Mark
Eisenberg, the banker, who had “thrown him down.” It was
the “Big Five,” at their old tricks of trying to freeze out the
independents. Wouldn’t they jist like to get Ross Consolidated
in a hole, and buy it up for five or ten millions!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny had a talk with Mr. Irving, who told him that it
was the Federal Reserve system at work; a device of the big
Wall Street banks, a supposed-to-be government board, but
really just a committee of bankers, who had the power to
create unlimited new paper money in times of crisis. This
money was turned over to the big banks, and in turn loaned
by them to the big industries whose securities they held and
must protect. So, whenever a panic came, the big fellows were
saved, while the little fellows went to the wall.</p>

<p class="pindent">In this case it was the farmers who were being “deflated.”
They were unorganized, and had no one to protect them; they
had to dump their crops onto the market, and the prices were
tumbling—literally millions of farmers would be bankrupt
before this year was by. But the price of manufactured goods
would not drop to the same extent, because the big trusts, having
the Wall Street banks behind them, could hold onto their
stocks. Bunny took this explanation to his father, who passed
it on to Mr. Roscoe, who said it was exactly right, by Jees;
he knew the bunch that had their fingers in the till of the
Federal Reserve bank here on the coast, and they were buying
up everything in sight, the blankety-blank-blanks, but they
weren’t going to get the Roscoe-Ross properties.</p>

<p class="pindent">Money was so scarce, Bertie could not have a new car,
despite the fact that she had damaged hers in a collision; and
Dad talked economy at meal-times, until Aunt Emma took to
feeding them on hash made from yesterday’s roast! Shortage
everywhere, and worry in people’s faces, and hints of bankruptcy
and unemployment in the newspapers—they tried their
best to hide it, but it leaked out between the lines.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then a funny thing happened. A big limousine with a
chauffeur drove up before the Ross home one summer evening,
and out stepped a stately personage in snow-white flannels;
a tall young man with yellow hair and a solemn visage—Eli
Watkins, by heck! He shook hands all round—he had
developed the manners of an archbishop—and then asked for
a private conference with Dad. He was taken into the “den,”
and half an hour later came out smiling, and bowed himself
away; and Dad said nothing until he was alone with Bunny,
and then his face expanded into a grin and he chuckled, by
Judas Priest, Eli had gone into the real estate business. He
had found a block on the outskirts of the city which was
exactly the size for the temple which the angel of the Lord
had commanded him to build; or rather he had found some
real estate subdividers who had a pull with the city board of
supervisors, and had got permission to create a block of this
unprecedented size. So the word of the Lord had been vindicated,
and the golden temple was to arise. But for some reason
unknown the Lord had failed to tip off Eli to the panic, and
here he was “stuck,” just like any common, unholy business
man, with a payment on his hundred and seventy-five thousand
dollar tract nearly a month overdue. The collections at the
revivals had fallen off, and the Lord had made it manifest
that He desired Eli to employ some other method of raising
funds.</p>

<p class="pindent">“What did he want of you, Dad?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“The Lord had revealed to him that I would take a second
mortgage on the property. But I told him the Lord had failed
to reveal where I was to get the cash. I gave him five hundred
to help him over.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Good God, Dad! I thought we were economizing!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, Eli pointed out that he had blessed that first well
on the Paradise tract, and that was why we had got all the
oil. You can see, it would ’a been sort of blasphemy if I’d denied
it.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But Dad, you know you don’t believe in Eli Watkins’
bunk!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I know, but that fellow has got a tremendous following,
and we might need him some day, you can’t be sure. If there
should come a close election, here or at Paradise, we might
get our money back many times by getting Eli to endorse our
ticket.”</p>

<h3>XII</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny thought this over, and then summoned his nerve,
and went back to his father. “Look here, Dad! If you’ve
got five hundred for a joke with Eli Watkins, I want five
hundred for something serious.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad looked alarmed right away. He should not have told
Bunny about that money! “What is it, son?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’ve been to see Mr. Irving, Dad, and he’s in trouble, he
can’t get a teaching job anywhere. They’ve got him blacklisted.
You see, he has to mention that he’s been teaching at
Southern Pacific the last two years, and the people write to
enquire about him, and he’s convinced that somebody in the
university is telling them he’s a red.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I shouldn’t wonder,” said Dad. “But that’s not your
fault.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, it is, Dad! I was the one that dragged him out and
made him talk to me. I thought I could keep it to myself,
but they had some one spying on us.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, son, is he trying to borrow money from you?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No, I offered him a little, but he wouldn’t take it. But
I know he needs it, and I’ve been talking about it with Harry
Seager, and with Peter Nagle—they know some of the labor
men in the city, and they think there is a possibility of starting
a labor college here. We all agree that Mr. Irving is the ideal
man to run it.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“A labor college?” said Dad. “That’s a new one on me.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’s to educate the young workers.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But why can’t they go to the regular schools, that are
free?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“They don’t teach them anything about labor. At least
they don’t teach them anything that’s true. So the labor men
are founding places where bright young fellows can be fitted
to take their part in the labor struggle.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad thought it over. “You mean, son, it’s a place where
a bunch of you reds teach Socialism and such stuff.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No, that’s not fair, Dad; we don’t propose to teach any
doctrines. We want to teach the open mind—that has always
been Mr. Irving’s idea. He wants the labor men to think for
themselves.”</p>

<p class="pindent">But that kind of talk didn’t fool Dad for a moment.
“They’ll all turn into reds before they get through,” he said.
“And see here, son—I don’t mind your giving five hundred to
Mr. Irving, but it’s going to be kind of tough on me if I’m to
spend my life earning money, and then you spend it teaching
young people that I haven’t got any right to it!”</p>

<p class="pindent">And Bunny laughed—that was the best way to take it. But
he thought it over—more and more as the years passed—and
he realized how that shrewd old man looked into the future and
read life!</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XIII<br /> <span class="sub-head">THE MONASTERY</span></h1></div>

<h3>I</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny was studying and thinking, trying to make up his
mind about the problem of capital versus labor. It had become
clear to him that the present system could not go on forever—the
resources and wealth of the country thrown into an arena,
to be scrambled for and carried off by the greediest. And when
you asked, who was to change the system, there was only one
possible answer—the great mass of the workers, who did not
have the psychology of gamblers, but had learned that wealth
is produced by toil. In the very nature of their position, the
workers could only prevail by combining; and so, whether they
would or not, they had to develop solidarity, an ideal of brotherhood
and co-operation.</p>

<p class="pindent">Such was the fundamental faith of all “radicals,” and
Bunny accepted the doctrine joyfully, as a way of escape from
the tangle of commercialism and war. Labor was to organize,
and take over industry, and rebuild it upon a basis of service.
The formula was simple, and worthy of all trust; but alas,
Bunny was being forced to admit that the reality was complicated.
The makers of the new society were not able to agree
upon plans for the structure, nor how to get the old one out of
the way. They were split into a number of factions, and spent
a good part of their energies quarreling among themselves.
Bunny would have thought that here in Southern California at
least, the labor movement had enemies enough in the federations
of the employers, with their strike-breaking and spy agencies,
their system of blacklist and persecution, and their politicians,
hired to turn the law against the workers. But alas, it
did not seem so to the young radicals; they had to make enemies
of one another!</p>

<p class="pindent">Just now they were in a fever over the Russian revolution;
a colossal event that had shaken the labor movement of the
whole world. Here for the first time in history the workers
had got possession of a government; and what were they making
of the chance? The capitalist press of the world was, of
course, portraying Russia as a nightmare; but the Soviets continued
to survive, and every day of survival was a fresh defeat
for the newspaper campaign. The workers <span class="it">could</span> run a government!
The workers <span class="it">were</span> running a government! Just
look!</p>

<p class="pindent">So, in every country of the world, the labor movement became
divided into two factions, those who thought the workers
in their country could follow the example of the Russians, and
should organize and prepare to do it; and those who thought
that for one reason or another it couldn’t be done, and the
attempt was madness. This great division showed itself in
every faction and school of thought. The Socialists split into
those who wanted to follow Russia and those who didn’t; the
Anarchists split in the same way, and so did the “wobblies”;
even the old line labor leaders divided into those who wanted
to let the Soviet government alone, and those who wanted to
help the capitalists to put it down!</p>

<p class="pindent">For Bunny this struggle was embodied in the Menzies family.
Papa Menzies was an old-time Social-Democrat from
abroad, active in the clothing workers’ union. Of his six children,
two daughters had followed their mother—an old-time,
orthodox Jewess who wore a dirty wig, and kept all the feast
days in the home, and wept and prayed for the souls of her
lost ones, stolen from the faith of their fathers by America,
which had made them work on Saturdays, and by the radical
movement, which had made them agnostics and scoffers. Rachel
and the oldest boy, Jacob, were Socialists like their father; but
the other two, Joe and Ikey, had gone over to the “left wing,”
and were clamoring for the dictatorship of the proletariat.</p>

<h3>II</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny received a letter from Rachel. “Dear Mr. Ross”—she
always addressed him that way, alone of his class-mates;
it was her way of maintaining her proletarian dignity, in dealing
with a person of great social pretensions. “We are home
after picking all the prunes in California, and next week we
begin on the grapes. You said you wanted to attend a meeting
of the Socialist local, and there is to be an important one
tomorrow evening, at the Garment-workers’ Hall. My father
and brothers will be there, and would be glad to meet you.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny replied by a telegram, inviting one old and four
young Jewish Socialists to have dinner with him before the
meeting. He took them to an expensive restaurant—thinking
to do them honor, and forgetting that they might feel uneasy
as to their clothes and their table manners. Verily, it is easier
for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle, than for a
rich man to enter into the feelings of the disinherited.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny found Rachel quite altered from the drab, hardworking
girl he had known. She belonged to that oriental
type which can pick fruit in the sun for several weeks without
worrying about complexions; she had sunset in her cheeks and
sunrise in her spirit, and for the first time it occurred to Bunny
that she was quite an interesting-looking girl. She told about
their adventures, which seemed to him extraordinarily romantic.
Most people, when they indulged in day-dreaming, would
picture themselves as the son and heir of a great oil magnate,
with millions of dollars pouring in upon them, and a sporty
car to drive, and steel widows and other sirens to make love
to them. But Bunny’s idea of a fairy-story was to go off with
a bunch of youngsters in a rattle-trap old Ford that broke
down every now and then, and camp out in a tent that the
wind blew away, and get a job picking fruit along side of
Mexicans and Japanese and Hindoos, and send home a post-office
order for ten or twelve dollars every week!</p>

<p class="pindent">Papa Menzies was a stocky, powerful-looking man with
curly yellow hair all over his head, and a deep chest—though
most of it seemed to be in back instead of in front, so much
was he bent over by toil. There were certain English letters
he could never pronounce; he would say, contemptuously, “Dis
talk about de vorld revolution.” His son Jacob, the Socialist
one, Bunny knew as a stoop-shouldered, pale student, and
found him much improved by outdoor life. The other two
boys, the young “left wingers,” were talkative and egotistical,
and repelled the fastidious Bunny, who had not insight enough
to guess that they were meeting a young plutocrat for the first
time in their lives, and this was their uneasy effort to protect
their working-class integrity. Nobody was going to say that
they had been overawed! In addition to this, they were hardly
on speaking terms with the rest of the family, because of the
bitter political dispute going on.</p>

<p class="pindent">They went to the hall, which was crowded with people,
mostly workers, all tense with excitement. There had been a
committee appointed to deal with the policy of the “local,” and
this committee brought in a report in favor of expelling the
“left wingers”; also there was a minority report, in favor of
expelling everybody else! So then the fat was in the fire;
and Bunny listened, and tried valiantly to keep from being
disillusioned with the radical movement. They were so noisy,
and Bunny had such a prejudice in favor of quiet! He wouldn’t
expect working people to have perfect manners, he told himself
nor to use perfect English; but did they need to shriek
and shake their fists in the air? Couldn’t they debate ideas,
without calling each other “labor fakers” and “yellow skunks”
and so on? Bunny had chosen to call upon Local Angel City
of the Socialist party at a critical moment of its history; and
decidedly it was not putting on company manners for him!</p>

<p class="pindent">Here was Papa Menzies, clambering onto the platform,
and shouting at his own sons that they were a bunch of jackasses,
to imagine they could bring about mass revolution in
America. “Vy did de revolution come in Russia? Because de
whole country had been ruined by de var. But it vould take ten
years of var to bring de capitalist class in America to such a
breakdown; and meanvile, vot are you young fools doing?
You vant to deliver de Socialist party over to de police! Dey
have got spies here—yes, and dose spies is de mainspring of
your fool left ving movement!”</p>

<p class="pindent">That seemed reasonable enough to Bunny. The business
men of Angel City would want the radical movement to go to
extremes, so that they might have an excuse to smash it; and
when they wanted something to happen, they did not scruple
to make it happen. But to say this to the young extremists
was like waving a red rag before a herd of bulls. “What?”
shouted Ikey Menzies at his own father. “You talk about the
police? What are your beloved Social-Democrats doing now
in Germany? They have got charge of the police, and they are
shooting down Communist workers for the benefit of the capitalist
class!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, and they will do the same thing in California!” cried
the other brother. “You are a bunch of class-collaborators!”
That was a new word, and a dreadful one, it appeared. The
question was whether the tottering capitalist system could be
propped up for another ten years or so; and the “right-wingers”
would take office under the capitalists, and help to save them.
“You make yourself their agent,” proclaimed Joe Menzies, “to
bribe the workers by two cents more wages per hour!”</p>

<p class="pindent">And so there was a bust-up in Local Angel City, as everywhere
else in the world; the “reds” withdrew, and presently
split into three different Communist groups; and Joe and Ikey
Menzies left home, and set up house-keeping with two girl-workers
of their own way of thinking. So Bunny was more
perplexed than ever; life appeared so complicated, and happiness
so hard to find!</p>

<h3>III</h3>

<p class="pindent">One Saturday the telephone rang, and it was Vernon Roscoe
calling Dad. Bunny happened to answer, and heard the jovial
voice, “Hello, how’s the boy Bolsheviki? Say, Jim Junior, I
thought you were coming up to my place! Eventually—why
not now? Annabelle is resting from ‘Pangs of Passion’—she’ll
be glad to see you. Vee Tracy is there, and Harvey Manning—quite
a bunch of people over Sunday. Sure, I’ll be up! You
go ahead, your old man will tell you the way.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny told Dad he had accepted the invitation, and Dad
said that Mr. Roscoe’s domestic arrangements were such that
Bunny ought to be told about them in advance. Annabelle
Ames, the moving picture actress, was what people called his
mistress, but it wasn’t really that, because she was devoted to
him, and all their friends knew about it, and it was jist the
same as being married; only, of course, there was Mrs. Roscoe,
who lived in the house in the city, with her four sons. Mrs.
Roscoe went in for society and all that, and had tried to drag
Verne in, but he wasn’t cut out for that life. Sometimes Mrs.
Roscoe would go out to the Monastery, as the country place
was called, but of course not when Miss Ames was there; Dad
said they must have some system to keep from running into
each other. Miss Ames had her own house, near to the studio,
and the Monastery was a “show-place,” where they took their
friends over week-ends.</p>

<p class="pindent">You drove up behind a chain of mountains that lined the
coast: another of those wonderful roads, a magic ribbon of concrete
laid out by a giant’s hand. The engine purred softly and
you raced ahead of the wind, up long slopes and down long
slopes, and winding through mazes of hills; there were steep
grades and vistas of tumbled mountains, and broad sweeps of
valley, and stretches of shore with fishermen’s huts, and boats,
and nets drying in the sun; then more hills and mountain
grades—for hours you flew, as fast as you pleased, for you
were twenty-one now, and Dad no longer expected you to obey
the speed-laws.</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a road that branched off towards the ocean, and
after climbing ten miles or so, you came to a high steel fence,
and steel gates, and a sign: “Private: Turn Back Here.”—and
a wide place in the road, made especially so that you might
obey! The gate was open, so Bunny drove on, and climbed
another hill, and came over the brow, and then, oh, wonderful!—a
great bowl of yellow and green, two or three miles
across, with one side broken out towards the ocean, and in
the center of the bowl the grey stone towers of the Monastery!
Mountains on every side, and the oil magnate owned everything
in sight, both the land and the landscape; if the public wanted
to see his retreat, it would have to get a row-boat, or swim.</p>

<p class="pindent">You rolled down the winding drive, through tumbled
masses of rocks and clumps of live oaks a century or two old,
and came to a fork in the road, and one way said “Delivery,”
and the other said, “Guests.” If you were so fortunate as to
be a guest, your road led under a porte-cochere big enough for
half a dozen double-decker stages; a footman appeared, and
summoned a chauffeur to take your car to the garage, and you
were escorted into a living-room—well, it was like going into
a cathedral, your eyes would follow the arches overhead, and
you might trip yourself on the skin of an aurochs or a gnu or
whatever the dickens it was. What grim sardonic architect
had played this jest of Gothic towers and steeples and crenellations
and machicolations—here in the midst of a new pagan
empire, and called by such a very suggestive name! Assuredly,
the Monastery would need to be of pre-reformation style, to fit
the ways of the monk who occupied it!</p>

<p class="pindent">The transept of the cathedral concealed an elevator, Bunny
discovered; and out of it tripped suddenly a diminutive vision
in lemon-colored chiffon, with lemon-colored stockings and
shoes, and a big lemon-colored hat such as shepherdesses used
to wear when having their portraits painted. It was complete
and costly enough for a fancy-dress ball; and no introduction
was needed, for Bunny was one of that ninety percent of all
males in the civilized world, and perhaps seventy percent in
Madagascar, Paraguay, Nova Zembla, Thibet and New Guinea,
who could have told the number of lashes in each of Annabelle
Ames’s eyelids, or drawn a diagram of her dimples, and
the exact course of a tear down her cheek. He had seen her
as the “wild” daughter of a Pittsburg steel king, duly chastened
and brought to faith in mother, home and heaven; as
the mistress of a French king, dying elegantly to expiate elegant
sins; as the mistreated and eloping heiress of a Georgian
manor-house; as a bare-legged “mountainy-girl” in the Blue
Ridge—“Howdy, stranger, be you-all one of them revenooers?”
All this in the “movies”; and now here she was in the
“speakies!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“So this is Mr. Ross!” Her “speakie” was a queer little
high treble. “Papa has told me so much about you!” (Papa
was Mr. Roscoe.) “I’m so glad to have you here, and do make
yourself at home. Do whatever you please, for this is liberty
hall.” Bunny recalled the caption—but was it from “Hearts
of Steel,” or from “The Maid of the Manor?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“And here is Harve,” the mistress of the manor was saying.
“Oh, Harve, come here, this is Bunny Ross; Harvey
Manning. It’s the first time Mr. Ross has been here, and
please be nice to him so he’ll come back. He’s going to college,
and reads a lot and knows everything, and we’re going to seem
so ignorant and frivolous!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Harvey Manning was coming in through one of the French
windows which took the place of the stations of the cross in
this cathedral. He was walking slowly, and did not increase
his pace; he talked slowly also, a dry sort of drawl—having
never had to hurry, because he came of one of the old families
of the state. He had a queer, ugly face, with a great many
wrinkles, and Bunny never was clear whether he was old or
young. “Hello, Ross,” he said, “pleased-to-meecher. I got an
uncle that’s spending a hundred thousand dollars to put you in
jail.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Is that so?” said Bunny, a trifle startled.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Sure thing! He’s nuts on this red-hunting business, and
the pinks are worse than the reds, he says. I’ve been worried
about you.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Never mind,” said Bunny, perceiving that this was a
“josh,” such as helps to make life tolerable for idle men, young
and old. “Dad will spend two hundred thousand and get me
out again.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Come to think of it, I guess Verne would chip in—wouldn’t
he, Annabelle?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“None of my guests ever stay in jail,” replied the star.</p>

<p class="pindent">“They phone to Papa, and he phones to the chief of police,
who lets them out right away.”</p>

<p class="pindent">She said this without smiling; and Harvey Manning remarked,
“You see, Ross, Annabelle has a literal mind.”</p>

<h3>IV</h3>

<p class="pindent">Yes, that was the truth about this bright luminary of the
screen, as Bunny came to observe it; she had a literal mind.
All the poetry and romance the public imagined about her—that
was in the public’s eye, so to say. All that Annabelle had
to contribute was a youthful figure and a pliable face; the
highly paid directors did the rest. She produced pictures as
a matter of business, and her talk was of production costs, and
percentages on foreign sales, just as if it had been an oil well.
That was why she got along with Vernon Roscoe, who also
had a literal mind. A primrose by the river’s brim a yellow
primrose was to him, and to Annabelle it was a decoration for
an “interior,” or a background on “location.”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a certain grim honesty about this, as Bunny discovered;
it was Annabelle’s desire to be an actress rather than
a mistress. “By Jees,” Verne would proclaim to his guests,
“it’s cost me eight million dollars to make a movie queen out
of this baby.” And the thirty year old baby had the dream
that some day she would achieve a masterpiece, that would earn
this eight million and vindicate her honor. Meantime, she
paid installments by taking care of Verne—so publicly that it
was quite touching, and respectable according to the strictest
bourgeois standards. If the oil magnate had ever had the idea
that in taking to his bosom a movie star he was going to lead
a wild and roystering life, he had made a sad mistake, for he
was the most hen-pecked of all “butter and egg men.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Now, Papa,” Annabelle would say, “you’ve had enough
to drink. Put that down.” She would say it before a company
assembled in their gladdest rags for a dinner-party; and
Verne would protest, “My God, baby, I ain’t got started yet!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, you stop before you start tonight. Remember what
Doctor Wilkins says about your liver.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Verne would bluster, “To hell with livers!” and the answer
would be, “Now, Papa, you told me to make you obey! Have
I got to make you ashamed before all this company?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Me ashamed? I’d like to see anybody make me ashamed!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, Papa, you know you’ll be ashamed if I tell what you
said to me the last time you were drunk.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Verne paused, with his glass half-way in the air, trying to
remember; and the company burst into clamor, “Oh, tell us!
Tell us!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Shall I tell them, Papa?” It was a bluff, for Annabelle
was very prim, and never indulged in vulgarity. But the bluff
went, and the great man set down his glass. “I surrender!
Take the stuff away.” Whereat everybody applauded, and it
gave the party a merry start.</p>

<p class="pindent">Strange as it might seem, Annabelle was a pious Catholic.
Just how she managed to fix things up with her priests Bunny
never knew, but she gave freely to charity, and you would find
her featured at benefits for Catholic orphan asylums and things
of that sort. At the same time her little head was as full of
superstitions as an old Negro mammy. She would not have
started a picture on a Friday for the whole of Vernon’s eight
million dollar endowment. When you spilled the salt, she not
merely advised you to throw some of it over your shoulder, she
did it for you, if necessary. Once, at luncheon, she made a
girl-friend eat at a side table, because otherwise there would
have been thirteen, and this girl, being the youngest, would
have fallen the victim.</p>

<p class="pindent">At the same time she was very good. She really liked you,
and liked to have you around, and when she begged you to
come back, she meant it. Nor would she make unkind remarks
about you after you were gone. Along with the ecstasies of
the artistic temperament, she had escaped its gnawing jealousies;
she was one of the few lady-stars before whom it was
safe to praise the work of other lady-stars, Bunny found.
Also, she had an abiding respect for him, because he had read
books, and had ideas about public questions. The fact that
Bunny had got his name on the front pages of the newspapers
as a dangerous “pink,” served to lend him that same halo of
mystery and romance, which the public assigned to Annabelle
as a luminary of the screen world, and the mistress of a monastery!</p>

<h3>V</h3>

<p class="pindent">“Harve,” said Annabelle, “there’s time for you to show
Mr. Ross over the place before dinner.” And so Bunny got
to see what a country place could be like, so that he could
make his father give him one. But Harvey Manning did not
make a very good escort. To show off a show-place you need
some one of an admiring disposition, whereas “Harve” had
seen too many places, and was inclined to patronize them all.</p>

<p class="pindent">There were almost as many buildings on this estate as there
were tanks at the Paradise refinery; only these were Gothic
tanks, with miniature towers and steeples and crenellations and
machicolations. There was no chapel or place of worship, nor
tombs of ancient abbots; but there was a gymnasium, with a
swimming pool of green marble, and a bowling alley, and
squash courts and tennis courts, and a nine hole golf course, and
a polo field—everything you would find at the most elaborate
country club. There was a stable with saddle horses ridden
mostly by grooms, and a library read only by motion picture
directors looking up local color—or at any rate that was Harvey’s
tale about it.</p>

<p class="pindent">Also there was a regular menagerie of local creatures. The
hired men and their youngsters had discovered that such gifts
pleased the master, so they brought in everything they could
capture. There was an enclosed park with deer and mountain
sheep, and heavily barred dens with grizzly bears shambling
over the rocks, and wild cats and coyotes and mountain lions
dozing in the shade. There was a giant dome covered with
netting, with a big dead tree inside, and eagles seated thereon.
An eagle in his native state, sailing with supreme dominion
through the azure deep of air, has been a thrilling theme for
poets; but sitting in a cage he is a melancholy object. “Some
of your red friends in jail!” Harvey Manning remarked in
passing.</p>

<p class="pindent">But even the most blasé man of the world has something
in which he is interested, so Bunny found. Presently his guide
took out his watch and remarked that it was nearly six-thirty,
and they must get back to the house. He was “on the water
wagon” until that hour of each day, and when it drew near,
he was about ready to jump out of his skin. So they strolled
back, and a Chinese boy clad in white duck had evidently
learned to expect him, and was on hand with a tray. Harvey
took two drinks, to make up for lost time, and then he sighed
contentedly, and revealed that he could talk without a drawl.</p>

<p class="pindent">When Bunny came down for dinner there was quite a company
assembled—some in evening dress and some in golf
clothes and some in plain business suits like the host—it was
“liberty hall,” according to the caption. Roscoe was talking
politics to Fred Orpan—the drubbing they were going to give
the Democratic party. Roscoe did the talking, for the other
was a queer silent creature, tall and lean, with a tall, lean face,
like a horse. He had the strangest grey-green eyes, that somehow
looked absolutely empty; you would decide that his head
was empty too, when he would listen and say nothing for an
hour—but this would be a mistake, for he was the directing
head of a great chain of oil enterprises, and Dad said he was
sharp as a steel trap.</p>

<p class="pindent">Also there was Bessie Barrie, because good form required
that she be invited wherever Orpan went. He had backed her
in several pictures, and she was “paying the price,” as the current
phrase ran; but it wasn’t quite the same respectable arrangement
as in the case of Roscoe and his Annabelle, because
Bessie had been in love with her director, and he was still in
love with her, and the attitude of the two men was far from
cordial. This was explained to Bunny by Harvey Manning,
gossip-in-chief, who had now had several more drinks, and
got his tongue entirely loosened. Bunny noted that the hostess
had tactfully placed the rival males at opposite ends of the
table.</p>

<p class="pindent">They were in a smaller cathedral now, known as the “refectory”;
and Bunny was in the seat of honor, at the right of the
charming Annabelle, transformed from a lemon-colored shepherdess
to a duchess in white satin. On her left sat Perry
Duchane, her director, telling about the cuts in the first two
reels, which he had brought along for a showing. Next to him
was a vacant seat; some lady was late, and Bunny was too
young in the ways of the world to know that this is how great
personages secure importance to themselves. It was his first
meeting with actresses, and how should he know that they
sometimes act off-stage?</p>

<h3>VI</h3>

<p class="pindent">You remember in that colossal production, “The Emperor
of Etruria,” the Scythian slave girl who is brought in from the
wilds to serve the pleasures of a pampered sybarite, and the
scene where the fat eunuchs lay hands upon her? With what
splendid fury she claws them and knocks their heads together!
Her clothing is torn to shreds in the struggle, and you have
glimpses of a lithe and sinewy body—the extent of the glimpses
depending upon the censorship laws of the state in which you
see the picture. The scene made a hit with the public, and
many producers competed for Viola Tracy—pronounce it
Vee-ola, please, with the accent on the first syllable. She displayed
her magnificent fighting qualities next in “The Virgin
Vamp,” and thereafter escaped dishonor by a hair’s breadth
in many palpitating scenes. Of late she had acquired dignity,
and was now regal on all the billboards of Angel City in “The
Bride of Tutankhamen,” an alluring figure, with deep-set
mysterious black eyes, and a smile fathomless as four thousand
years of history.</p>

<p class="pindent">Well, here she was, stepping out of the billboards, and into
the refectory of the Monastery; her Egyptian costume changed
for a daring one of black velvet, fresh from Paris, and with
black pearls to match. The footman drew out her chair, and
she rested one hand upon it, but did not take her seat; her
hostess said, “Miss Tracy, Mr. Ross”—and still she paused,
smiling at Bunny, and he smiling at her. It was a striking pose,
and Tommy Paley, her director, who had taught her the stunt,
and watched it now from the other end of the table, suddenly
called, “Camera!” Everybody laughed, and “Vee” most
gaily of all—revealing two rows of white pearls, more
regular than the black ones, and worth many times as much
to a movie star.</p>

<p class="pindent">Annabelle Ames got along in the world without ever saying
anything unkind about anybody, but that was not “Vee” Tracy’s
style; she had a fighting tongue, as well as fighting fists, and
her conversation gave Bunny the shock of his innocent young
life. They happened first to be discussing a lady vamp, recently
imported from abroad with much clashing of advertising cymbals.
“She dresses in very good taste,” said Annabelle, mildly.
“Oh, perfect!” said Vee. “Absolutely perfect! She selected
her dog to match her face!” And then presently they were
talking about that million dollar production, “The Old Oaken
Bucket,” which was just then waking home memories and
wringing tears from the eyes of millions of hardened sinners.
Dolly Deane, who played the innocent country maiden seduced
by a travelling salesman, was so charmingly simple, said Annabelle.
“Oh, yes!” replied Vee. “For the chance to be that
simple, she slept with her producer, and two angels, and the
director and his assistant; and all five of them told her how an
innocent virgin says her prayers!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny, who was a rebel in his own line, sat up and took
notice of this conversation; and you may be sure that Vee did
not fail to take notice of the young oil prince, flashing him
mischief with her sparkling black eyes. The footman brought
her a plate of soup in a golden bowl, and she took one glance
and cried, “Oh, my God, take it away, it’s got starch in it!
Annabelle, are you trying to drive me out of the profession?”
Then, to Bunny, “They say that nobody can eat a quail a day
for thirty days; but Mr. Ross, what would you say if I told you
I have eaten two lamb chops and three slices of pineapple every
day for seven years?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I would ask, is that an Egyptian rite, or maybe Scythian?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It is the prescription of a Hollywood doctor who specializes
in reducing actresses. We public idols are supposed to be
rioting in luxury, but really we have only one dream—to buy
enough Hollywood real estate so that we can retire and eat a
square meal!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Don’t you really ever steal one?” asked Bunny, sympathetically.</p>

<p class="pindent">She answered, “Ours are the kind of figures that never lie.
You can ask Tommy Paley what would happen if they were
to see any fat on me when the gentleman heavy tears my clothes
off! They would put me into the comics, and I’d earn my
living being rolled down hill in a barrel!”</p>

<h3>VII</h3>

<p class="pindent">Conversation at this dinner-party, as at most dinner-parties
in America at that time, resembled a walk along the edge of a
slippery ditch. Sooner or later you were bound to slide in,
and after that you could not get out, but finished your walk
in the ditch. “Mr. Ross,” said Annabelle, in her capacity as
hostess, “I notice you aren’t drinking your wine. You can
trust what we have—it’s all pre-war stuff.” And so they were
in the ditch, and talked about Prohibition.</p>

<p class="pindent">The law was two years and a half old, and the leisure
classes were just realizing the full extent of the indignity
which had been inflicted upon them. It wasn’t the high prices—they
were all of them seeking ways to spend money rapidly;
but it was the inconvenience, and the difficulties of being sure
what you were getting. People escaped the trouble by pinning
their faith to some particular bootlegger; Bunny noticed it as
an incredible but universal phenomenon that persons otherwise
the most cynical, who made it the rule of their lives to
trust nobody, would repeat the wildest stories which men of
the underworld had told them, about how this particular “case
of Scotch” had just been smuggled in from Mexico, or maybe
stolen from the personal stock of a visiting duke in Canada.</p>

<p class="pindent">They discussed the latest developments in the tragedy which
had befallen Koski, one of the emperors of their screen world,
who had had a priceless stock in the cellar of his country
place, and had taken the precaution to have it walled in with
two feet of brick, and guarded by doors such as you would
find on a bank vault; but thieves had come during the owner’s
absence, and bound and gagged the caretaker, and cut through
the floor of the drawing-room, above the cellar, and hauled out
everything with rope and tackle, and carted it away in trucks.
Since then Koski had been raising a row with the authorities;
he charged that they were standing in with the thieves, and
he had brought in an outside detective agency, and threatened
a scandal that would shake the pants off the police department.
By this means he had got back the greater part of his casks and
bottles; but alas, the real stuff was gone, they had all been
emptied and refilled with synthetic. And so, after that, there
was a convincing story for your bootlegger to tell you; this was
some of the original Koski stuff! Millions of gallons of original
Koski stuff were being drunk in California, and even in
adjoining states.</p>

<p class="pindent">Suddenly Vee Tracy clapped her hands. “Oh, listen! I
have one on Koski! Him and some others! Has anybody
heard The Movie’s Prayer?”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a silence. No one had.</p>

<p class="pindent">“This is something for all of us to teach our children to
recite every night and morning. It is serious, and you mustn’t
joke.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Let us pray,” said the voice of Bessie Barrie.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Fold your hands, like good little children,” ordered Vee,
“and bow your heads.” And then with slow and solemn intonation
she began:</p>

<p class="pindent">“Our Movie, which art Heaven, Hollywood be Thy Name.
Let Koski come. His Will be done, in studio as in bed.”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a gasp, and then a roar of laughter swept the
table; no explanations were needed, they all knew their emperor,
master of the destiny of hundreds of screen actresses.
“Go on!” shouted voices; and the girl continued to intone an
invocation, which echoed in outline and rhythm the Lord’s
prayer, and brought in the names of other rulers of their
shadow world, always with an obscene implication. It was
a kind of Black Mass, and performed the magic feat of lifting
the conversation out of the ditch of Prohibition. They talked
for a while about the sexual habits of their rulers; who was
living with whom, and what scandals were threatened, and
what shootings and attempted poisonings had resulted. There
were thrilling crime mysteries, which would provide a topic
of conversation for hours in any Hollywood gathering; you
might hear half a dozen different solutions, each one positive,
and no two alike.</p>

<h3>VIII</h3>

<p class="pindent">They adjourned to the larger cathedral, where the lights
were dim, and there appeared, very appropriately in place of
the altar, a large white screen. At the far end of the room
was a projecting machine, and the guests distributed themselves
in lounging chairs, prepared to pay for their entertainment
by watching the first two reels of Annabelle’s new picture,
and giving their professional judgments on the “cutting.”
“Pangs of Passion” you may recall as a soul-shaking story
about a society bud whose handsome young husband is led
astray by a divorcee, and who, in order to make him jealous,
begins a flirtation with a bootlegger, and is carried off in a
rum-running vessel, and made the victim of the customary
pulling and hauling and tearing of feminine costumes. “My
God,” said Vee Tracy, in an aside to Bunny, “Annabelle has
been playing these society flappers since before they were born,
and in all that time she’s never had a story above the intelligence
of a twelve year old child! You’ll think it’s a joke, but I
know it for a fact that Perry Duchane gets a bunch of school
children together and tells them the scenario, and if there’s
anything they don’t like, he cuts it out.”</p>

<p class="pindent">And then to Annabelle she said, “It’s up to standard, my
dear; it will sell all right.” And to Bunny, “That’s one good
thing about Annabelle, you can say that and she’s satisfied—she
doesn’t ask you if it’s a work of art. But others do, and
I’ve made mortal enemies because I won’t lie to them. I say,
‘Leave art out of it, dearie; we all know our stuff is trash.’ ”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was technical discussion, and Bunny had an opportunity
to learn about the tricks of “cutting.” Also he learned
what had been the gross business on a number of Annabelle
Ames’ pictures, and the inside figures on other successes.
Tommy Paley had recently indulged in the luxury of making
an artistic and beautiful picture, which the papers had called
a “classic”; he and a group of friends had come out something
over a hundred thousand in the hole, and he had charged it
up to education, and said, “Let the Germans do the art stuff
after this!”</p>

<p class="pindent">All this time there had been a silent spectral figure flitting
about the cathedral, clad in white duck coat and trousers and
padded purple slippers; the Chinese boy, bearing a tray with
little glasses full of pink and yellow and purple and green
liquid. He would move from guest to guest, offering his tray,
and they would put down empty glasses and take up full ones,
and during the entire course of the evening the spectre never
made one sound, nor did anyone make a sound to it. Some
three hundred years ago an English poet, long since forgotten
by the movie world, had asked the question why a man should
put an enemy into his mouth to steal away his brains; but here
at the Monastery, the anxiety appeared to be that some one
might forget to put the enemy into his mouth—hence this
Chinese spectre to save the need of recollecting.</p>

<p class="pindent">There were a few who did not drink; Annabelle was one,
and Vee Tracy another. The spectre had apparently been
instructed not to go near Vernon Roscoe, and if Vernon tried
to approach the spectre, there would be a sharp warning, “Now,
Verne!” But others drank, and tongues were loosened, and
hearts poured out as the evening passed. Even Fred Orpan
came to life, and revealed a tongue! It was Vernon Roscoe’s
habit to “josh” everybody, and now he got paid back, as the
one-time rancher from Texas sat up in his chair and opened
his long horse’s face and demanded, in a falsetto voice which
sounded as if it came from a ventriloquist: “Anybody here
know how this old shyster got his start in life?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Apparently nobody did know; and Orpan put another question:
“Anybody ever seen him in swimming? I bet you never!
When it’s outdoors, he’ll tell you the water is too cold, and
when it’s indoors he’ll tell you it’s dirty or something. The
reason is, he’s got one toe missing, and he’s afraid to have it
proved on him. When he was drilling his first well, he ran
out of money and was clean done for; so he went and took out
an accident insurance policy, and then went rabbit-hunting and
shot off one of his big toes. So he got the cash to finish the
well! Is that true, old socks, or ain’t it?”</p>

<p class="pindent">The company laughed gleefully and clamored for an
answer; and Vernon laughed as much as anyone. He didn’t
mind the story, but you could never get him to tell. Instead,
he countered on his assailant, “You ought to hear about this
old skeezicks, how he got rich leasing oil lands from Indians.
They tell this about a dozen oil men, but Fred was the real
one that done it, I know because I was there. It was Old Chief
Leatherneck, of the Shawnees, and Fred offered him one-eighth
royalty, and the old codger screwed up his eyes and
said, ‘No take one-eighth, got to have one-sixteenth!’ Fred
said he couldn’t afford that, and begged him to take one-twelfth,
but he said, ‘One-sixteenth or no lease.’ So they signed up for
a sixteenth, and now it’s the Hellfire Dome, by Jees! Is that
so, old skeezicks, or ain’t it?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Said Fred Orpan, “You might complete the story by telling
what the old chief does with his royalties. He’s got a
different colored automobile for each day of the week, and he
figures to get drunk three times every day.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, take me to the Hellfire Dome!” wailed the voice of
Harvey Manning. “They won’t let me get drunk but one time
in a night, and none at all in the day-time!”</p>

<h3>IX</h3>

<p class="pindent">There was a large organ in this cathedral, a magic organ
of the modern style, which played itself when you put in a roll
of paper and pressed an electric switch. It played the very
latest jazz tunes from Broadway, and the company danced,
and Vee Tracy came to Bunny and said, “My doctor allows
me only one drink in an evening, and I want a sober partner.”
Bunny was glad to oblige, and so the time passed pleasantly.
He danced with his hostess, and with the blonde fairy, Bessie
Barrie. In between dances they chatted, and the Chinese spectre
continued to flit about, and the deeps of the human spirit
were more and more unveiled.</p>

<p class="pindent">In front of Bunny stood Tommy Paley, super-director,
handsome, immaculate if slightly ruffled, flushed of face, and
steady upon his legs if not in his thoughts. “Look here, Ross,”
he said, “I want you to tell me something.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What is it?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I want to know what it’s all about.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What, Mr. Paley?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Life! What the hell are we here for, and where do we
go when we get through?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“If I knew,” said Bunny, “I would surely tell you.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But, lookit, man, I thought you went to college! I never
got any education, I was a newsboy and all that. But I
thought when a fellow’s read a lotta books and goes to college—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“We haven’t got to it yet,” said Bunny. “Maybe it comes
in the last two years.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, by God, if they tell you, you come tell me. And
find out, old son, what the hell we going to do about sex?
You can’t live with ’em and you can’t live without ’em, and
what sort of a mess is it?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’s very puzzling,” admitted Bunny.</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’s the devil!” said the other. “I’d pay anybody ten year’s
salary if they’d teach me to forget the whole damn business.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes,” said Bunny; “but then, what would you direct?”</p>

<p class="pindent">And the super-director looked at him, bewildered, and suddenly
burst out laughing. “By God, that’s so! That’s a good
one! Ho, ho, ho!” And he went off, presumably to pass
the good one on.</p>

<p class="pindent">His place was taken by Harvey Manning, who was no
longer able to stand up, but sprawled over a chair, and in a
voice of the deepest injury declared, “I wanna know whoze
been tellin bout me!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Telling what?” asked Bunny.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Thaz what I wanna know. What they been tellin?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I don’t know what you mean, Harvey.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Thass it! Why don’t you know? Why don’t you tell me?
Mean say I ain’t askin straight? You think I’m drunk—that
it? I say, I wanna know whoze been talkin bout me an what
they been sayin. I gotta take care my reputation. I wanna
know why you won’t tell me. I’m gonna know if I have to
keep askin all night.” And accordingly he started again,
“Please, ole feller, what they been tellin you?”</p>

<p class="pindent">But just then the Chinese spectre flitted past, and Harvey
got up and made an effort to catch him, and failing, caught
hold of a lamp-stand, slightly taller than himself. It was not
built like the lamp-posts that he was used to clutching on
street-corners; it started to fall, and Bunny leaped and caught
it, and Harvey cried, in alarm, “Look out, you’re upsettin it!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Then a funny thing happened. Bunny had noticed at the
dinner-table a well-groomed man of the big Western type,
polite and unobtrusive; the superintendent of the estate, and
one of the few who kept sober. Now it appeared that among
the duties of superintendent at a monastery was that of the
old-fashioned “bouncer” of the Bowery saloon. He came up,
and quietly slipped his arm about Harvey Manning; and the
latter, evidently having been there before, set up an agonized
wail, “I d’wanna go to bed! I woan go to bed! Dammit,
Anderson, lemme lone! If I go to bed now I wake up in the
mornin an I can’t have a drink till evenin an I go crazy!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Against that horrible fate poor Harvey fought frantically;
but apparently the material inside the shoulders of Mr. Anderson’s
dresscoat was not the ordinary tailor’s padding, and the
weeping victim was helpless as in the grip of a boa-constrictor.
He went along, even while proclaiming loudly that he wouldn’t.
“I’ll get up again, I tell you! I woan be treated like a baby!
I woan come this damn place again! It’s an outrage! I’m a
grown man an I got a right get drunk if I wanna—” and so
his weeping voice died into the elevator!</p>

<p class="pindent">“Mr. Ross,” said Vee Tracy, “there are two cries that one
hears at Hollywood parties. The first is, I don’t want to go
to bed; and the second is, I do.”</p>

<h3>X</h3>

<p class="pindent">When Bunny made his appearance on Sunday morning,
he had the Monastery all to himself. He breakfasted, and
read the papers, which had been delivered from the nearest
railroad station; then he went for a stroll, and renewed his
acquaintance with the “reds” in the eagle cage. He walked
down towards the ocean, and discovered a combination of fire-break
and bridle-path, leading over the hills along the coast.
He followed this for a couple of miles, until it led down to a
long stretch of beach. The owner of the Monastery had
erected a barrier here, with signs warning the public to keep
out; there was a gate with a spring lock, and on the inside a
board with keys hanging on it, and instructions to take one
with you, so that you could return. Bunny did this, and continued
his walk down the beach.</p>

<p class="pindent">Presently he came upon a Rhine castle, set upon one of
these lonely hills; and in front of it, coming down to the water,
a series of terraces and gardens. There were paths, and watercourses,
“bridal-veil” falls, and fountains with stone-carved
frogs and storks and turtles and tritons—all suffering from
drought, for the water was shut off. You could guess that
the owner was away, because the window-shades in the Rhine
castle were drawn, and here and there throughout the gardens
were great lumps of white sheeting, evidently wrapped about
statues. Some of these were on pedestals, and some perched
on the stone walls; and directly over the head of each hung
an electric light.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was such a curious phenomenon that Bunny took the
trouble to climb into the garden, and lift up the hem of one of
these sheets, and was embarrassed to discover the entirely
naked round limbs of a large marble lady—presumably a Lorelei,
or other kind of German lady, because you could tell by
the shape of the cloth, and by feeling through it, that she had
a goblet uplifted in one hand, and behind her head a thick
marble rope, made by her braided hair. With golden comb
she combs it, you remember, and sings a song thereby, das hat
eine wundersame gewaltige Melodei; and Bunny was the
fisher-boy whom it seized with a wild woe. He peered under
half a dozen of the sheets, and counted the rest, establishing
the fact that the gardens contained no less than thirty-two
large, fat marble ladies with braided hair hanging down their
backs. An amazing spectacle it must have afforded, at night
when all the lights were turned on—and no one to behold it
but seals! Yes; Bunny looked out over the sea, and there was
not a sail in sight, but close to the shore were clusters of rocks,
and on these the seals sat waiting to see if he were going to
unveil the statues, and bring back the merry days before prohibition
ruined America!</p>

<p class="pindent">He returned to the beach, and walked on. The sun was
high now, and the water tempting; there were more rocks with
seals on them, and green-white breakers splashing over them,
not high enough to be dangerous, but just enough to be alluring.
Bunny made sure he was alone, and then undressed and waded
into the water.</p>

<p class="pindent">The attention of the seals became riveted upon him, and
with each step that he took, one of them would give a hump,
hump, and get nearer to the water’s edge. Some of them were
yellow, and some a dark brown, little ones and big ones, each
of them enormously fat—having consumed his own weight in
fish in the course of a day. As Bunny swam near, they slid
silently off the rocks, politely yielding place to him; when he
clambered onto the rocks, they would bob up and form a circle
a few yards away, yellow heads and brown heads sticking out
of the water, whiskers bristling and mild eyes staring. They
were strangely human, a circle of foreign children, watching
some visitor who does not know their language and may or
may not be dangerous.</p>

<p class="pindent">California water is always cold, but California sunshine is
always warm; so Bunny would swim for a while, and then
approach a cluster of rocks, and watch the silent company
hump themselves into the water. Whatever he wanted, they
would yield to him, the superior being, and content themselves
with the places he had left. The green-white seas splashed
over him, and underneath their surface was a garden of strange
plants, with anemones and abalones clinging, too tightly to be
pried off by fingers. White clouds drifted by, making swift
shadows over the water, and far out at sea a streak of smoke
showed where a steamer was passing.</p>

<p class="pindent">The world was so beautiful, and at the same time strange,
and interesting to be alive in! What must it be like to be a
seal? What did they think concerning this arrogant being who
commandeered their resting places? Did they see the Rhine
castle on the shore, or did they see only fish to eat, and how
did they understand so clearly that they must not eat a man?
Embarrassing if one of them should be a “red,” and rebel
against the genial customs of the phocidae! Thus Bunny—just
the same at the age of twenty-one as when first we met him,
driving over the Guadalupe grade and speculating about the
feelings of ground-squirrels and butcher-birds. He had completed
in the meantime a full course at the Beach City High
School, and half a course at Southern Pacific University, but
neither institution had told him what he wanted to know!</p>

<h3>XI</h3>

<p class="pindent">The young philosopher decided that he had had enough,
and started to swim in; but then he noticed someone on horseback,
galloping down the beach towards him. The figure was
bare-headed and clad in knickerbockers, and appeared to be a
man; but you never could be sure these days, so he swam and
waited, and presently made out that it was Vee Tracy. She
saw him, and waved her hand, and when she was opposite,
reined up her horse. “Good morning, Mr. Ross.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Good morning,” he called. “Is this part of the doctor’s
prescription?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, and it also includes swimming.” There was laughter
in her face, as if she guessed his plight. “Why don’t you
invite me to join you?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It would embarrass the seals.” He swam in slowly, and
stood with the waves tumbling about his shoulders.</p>

<p class="pindent">“It is the morning of the world,” said Vee. “Come out,
and let us enjoy it.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Look here, Miss Tracy,” he explained, “it so happens
that I wasn’t expecting company. I am the way the Lord
made me.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“O ye sons of men,” she chanted, “how long will ye turn
my glory into shame?” And she explained, “I once acted in
‘King Solomon’—a religious pageant. We had three real camels,
and I was Abishag the Shunammite, the damsel who cherished
the king and ministered unto him; and he sang to me,
Rise up my love, my fair one, and come away. For lo, the
winter is past, and the rain is over and gone; the flowers
appear on the earth, the time of the singing of birds is come,
and the voice of the turtle is heard in our land. The fig-tree
putteth forth her green figs, and the vines with the tender
grape give a good smell. Arise, my love, my fair one, and
come away. Oh my dove, that art in the cleft of the rocks—”</p>

<p class="pindent">He was near enough to see the imp of mischief dancing in
her black eyes. “Young woman,” he said, “I give you fair
notice. I have been in this water an hour, and I am cold. I
was on my way out.”</p>

<p class="pindent">She continued, “Thy neck is like the tower of David builded
for an armoury, whereon there hang a thousand bucklers, all
shields of mighty men.”</p>

<p class="pindent">He took a few steps, until the breakers barely reached his
waist. “I am on the way,” he said.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Who is this that cometh out of the water? My beloved
is white and ruddy, the chiefest among ten thousand. His
head is as the most fine gold, his locks are bushy—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Fair warning!” he announced. “One—two—three!” And
when she gave no sign of yielding, he strode out from the
waves.</p>

<p class="pindent">“His legs are as pillars of marble, set upon sockets of
fine gold; his countenance is as Lebanon, excellent as the
cedars.”</p>

<p class="pindent">He stood confronting her, the water playing about his feet.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Thou are beautiful, O my love, as Tirzah, comely as
Jerusalem, terrible as an army with banners. Turn away
thine eyes from me, for they have overcome me!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“If that’s in the Bible, I suppose it’s all right,” said Bunny.</p>

<p class="pindent">“ ‘King Solomon’ lost a fortune,” said the lady on horseback,
“so it’s the only pageant I was ever in, and it’s the only poetry
I can recite. But I dare say if I had been in a Greek pageant
I could quote something appropriate, for I read they used to
run naked in the games, and it did not embarrass them. Is
that true?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“So the books say,” said Bunny.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well then, let’s be Greek! You are a runner, I have heard.
Are you in training?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Partly so.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“My beloved’s lips are blue and he’s got goose-flesh, so
let’s have a race, you and my horse, and it’ll be a Greek
pageant.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Anything to oblige a lady.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Ready! Set!” she called sharply—and then, to his great
surprise, pulled a little revolver from under her jacket, and
fired it into the air. It was to be a real race!</p>

<p class="pindent">He started at the rate of twenty miles an hour, or a little
better, and heard the horse loping on the sand behind him.
He did not know how long the race was to last, so presently
he settled down to a long distance gait. He was warm again,
and willing to investigate being a Greek. The sky was blue,
and the clouds white, and the sea green, and the sand sparkling
cold; truly, as the girl had said, it was the morning of
the world!</p>

<p class="pindent">They came to a place where wagon-tracks came down to
the beach, and there were fishermen’s boats, and three men
had just shoved out through the breakers. They rested on
their oars, to stare at this amazing spectacle, an entirely naked
youth running a race on the beach with a woman on horseback.
Their swarthy Italian or Portuguese faces wore broad
grins, with white teeth showing. They knew about the Monastery,
and this was the latest freak of the idle rich!</p>

<p class="pindent">But then came a place where the highway came near to
the beach. There were tents ahead, and automobiles parked,
with canvas covers to protect them from the sun. There were
people on the beach; and these, Bunny knew, would not be
primitive foreigners, but ranchmen from the interior, having
brought their families to spend Sunday away from the baking
heat. They would have no toleration for the freaks of the
idle rich, neither would they know about the customs of the
ancient Greeks; they were sober, church-going people, the sort
who formed the Ku Klux Klan, and punished fornications and
adulteries by tarring and feathering and riding on a rail. But
Vee had challenged Bunny, and he said to himself that it was
up to her. Did she really want to be pagan and take the
consequences?</p>

<p class="pindent">He ran on and on. The tents came near, and he saw
women stare, and then dive into shelter; he saw the men, not
running away, nor turning their heads, but glaring with menace
in their faces. What would they do? Seize the obscene
intruder, and wrap him perforce in a blanket, and deliver him
over to the police? Bunny’s quick mind leaped to the outcome—a
streamer head across the front page of the “Angel
City Evening Howler”—</p>

<p class="line" style="text-align:center;margin-top:1em;margin-bottom:1em;">STAR RACES NUDE OIL RED!</p>

<p class="pindent">Then suddenly he heard a voice behind him: “I give up!
I’m going back!” So he whirled, and the horse whirled, and
away they went, even faster than they had come, and both of
them shaking with laughter in the morning of the world!</p>

<h3>XII</h3>

<p class="pindent">The Greeks had never worn either trousers or shirts, and
the process of getting into these garments did not lend itself
to romantic or esthetic interpretations. Therefore Vee Tracy
rode down the beach while Bunny dressed; and when he rejoined
her, she was no longer Greek, but an American young
lady upon her dignity, and it would have been bad taste to
have referred to her crazy prank.</p>

<p class="pindent">She was leading the horse with the bridle over its head,
and Bunny walked by her side. “Did you notice that nightmare?”
she said, as they passed the thirty-two Loreleis in their
grave-clothes. “That was one of the dreams of old Hank
Thatcher. You’ve heard of ‘Happy Hank,’ the California
Grape-king?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“So that’s his place!” exclaimed Bunny.</p>

<p class="pindent">“He dreamed of orgies, and kept half a dozen harems;
his wife refused him a divorce to punish him, and when he
died she covered up his dream as a kind of public penance.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Nobody seems to see it but the seals.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, the papers were full of it; they would never pass
up any news about the Thatchers. They send out a reporter
once in a while. One time they had a scream of a story—the
reporter had worn a suit of chain-mail under his trousers,
and the dogs had torn at him in vain!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“She sets dogs on them?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s why nobody dares go up there to peek at the
statues.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Good Lord!” exclaimed Bunny. “I peeked at half a dozen
of them.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, you were lucky. That’s why I carried this revolver
along; they sometimes come onto the beach, and the neighbors
make war on them.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Why doesn’t she put up a fence?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“She’s in a dispute with the county. She claims to own
the beach, and every now and then she puts a barrier across
it, and the county sends men at night to tear it down. They’ve
been fighting it out for the past ten years. Also the state is
trying to put a highway through the tract—it would save
several miles of the coast route—but she has spent a fortune
fighting them; she lives in that castle like a beleaguered princess
in the old days—all the shades drawn, and she steals about
from room to room with a gun in her hand, looking for burglars
and spies. Ask Harve about it—he knows her.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Is she insane?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’s a reaction from her life with her husband; he was a
profligate, and so she’s a miser. They tell a story about him,
he used to pay his hands in cash, and would drive about the
country in a buckboard with little canvas bags, each containing
a thousand dollars in gold. One time he dropped one bag
and didn’t miss it; one of his hands brought it to him, and old
Hank looked at the man with contempt, and put his hand into
his pocket and pulled out a half dollar. ‘Here,’ he said, ‘here’s
the price of a rope; go buy one and hang yourself’!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“So now she’s taking care of the money!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Exactly. She pays all her bills by registered mail, and
preserves the receipts, and insists on having a return receipt
from the post office, and when that comes she files the two
together, and when the receipted bill comes back, she files and
indexes that. She won’t let a bookkeeper do it, because you
can’t find any employees who can be trusted to attend to
things properly. She spends hours poring over her business
papers, and discovering other people’s carelessness and
incompetence. She employs lawyers, and then she employs
other lawyers to check them up, and then a detective agency
to find out how the lawyers are selling her out. She’s convinced
the county authorities are persecuting her, and that
they’re all a lot of crooks—she mayn’t be so wrong in that.
She’s lean and haggard, and wears herself to a skeleton roaming
about the house, dusting the furniture and nagging at the
servants because they won’t take care of things.”</p>

<p class="pindent">The two walked on down the beach. “Up over that hill,”
said Vee, “lives old Hank’s sister; he left her part of the
estate, and the two women have quarrelled about the boundary
line and the water-rights. Tessie Thatcher’s an old rake—hires
men to work for her, and makes them her lovers, and writes
them tootsie-wootsie letters, and then they try to blackmail
her, and she tells them to go to hell, and they bring suit for
unpaid salaries, and sell the letters to the newspapers, and
they’re all published; but Tessie doesn’t care, she knows that
nothing can hurt her social position, she’s too rich; and besides,
she’s an old booze-fighter, and knows how to forget her
troubles.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“My God!” exclaimed Bunny. “What property does to
people!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“To women especially,” said Vee. “It’s too much for their
nerves. I look at the old women I meet, and think, which of
them do I want to be? And I say, Oh, my God! and jump into
my car and drive fifty miles an hour to get away from my
troubles, and from people who want to tell me theirs!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Is that what you were doing when the judge sent you to
jail for a week?” laughed Bunny.</p>

<p class="pindent">“No,” she answered, “that was a publicity stunt, the bright
idea of my advertising man.”</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XIV<br /> <span class="sub-head">THE STAR</span></h1></div>

<h3>I</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny went back to Angel City, and discovered that if he
wanted to follow Vee Tracy’s program of dodging other people’s
troubles, he had made a fatal mistake to get interested in a
labor college! He went to see Mr. Irving, and found the young
instructor up to his ears in the growing pains and disputes of
the labor movement. All summer long his job had been interviewing
leaders and sympathizers, and trying to get them
together on a program. He had managed to get the college
started, with three teachers and about fifty pupils, mostly coming
at night; but it was all precarious—the difficulties seemed
overwhelming.</p>

<p class="pindent">There were a handful of progressive and clear-minded men
and women in the labor movement; and then there was the
great mass of the bureaucracy, dead from the ears up; also a
little bunch of extreme radicals, who would rather have no
bread at all than half a loaf. The old-line leaders would
have nothing to do with the college if these “reds” got in;
on the other hand, if you excluded the “reds,” they would
set up a clamor, and a lot of genuine liberals would say, what
was the use of a new college that was so much like the old
ones?</p>

<p class="pindent">The labor movement had its traditions, having to do with
getting shorter hours and more pay for the workers; and the
old officials were bound by that point of view. The average
union official was a workingman who had escaped from day-labor
by the help of a political machine inside the union. Anything
new meant to him the danger of losing his desk job, and
having to go back to hard work. He had learned to negotiate
with the employers and smoke their cigars, and in a large
percentage of cases he was spending more money than his
salary. Here in Angel City, the unions had a weekly paper,
that lived by soliciting advertising from business men—and
what was that but a respectable form of graft? When you
took any fighting news to an editor of that sort, he would say
the dread word “Bolshevism,” and throw your copy into the
trash basket.</p>

<p class="pindent">And the same thing applied to the movement in its national
aspects. The American Federation of Labor was maintaining
a bureau in Washington, for the purpose of combatting the
radicals, and this bureau was for practical purposes the same
as any patriotic society; its function was to collect damaging
news about Russia from all over the world, and feed it
to the American labor press. And of course, if any labor man
was defiant, and insisted upon telling the other side, he would
incur the bitter enmity of this machine, and they would throw
him to the wolves. There would be a scare story in the capitalist
press, telling how the Communists had got possession
of the plasterers’ union, or maybe the button workers, and the
grand jury was preparing action against a nest of conspirators.
The average labor leader, no matter how honest and sincere,
shivered in his boots when such a club was swung over his head.</p>

<h3>II</h3>

<p class="pindent">Also there was Harry Seager and his troubles. The Seager
Business College had turned out a class of young men and
women, thoroughly trained to typewrite, “All men are created
free and equal,” and also, “Give me liberty or give me death.”
And now these young people were going about in the business
offices of Angel City, and discovering that nobody wanted
employees to typewrite anything of that sort! In plain words
these young people were being told that the Seager Business
College was a Bolshevik institution, and the business men of
the city had been warned not to employ its graduates. The
boycott was illegal in Angel City, and if any labor men tried
to apply it, they would be whisked into jail in a jiffy. But
imagine Harry Seager asking, the district attorney to prosecute
the heads of the Merchants’ and Manufacturers’ Association,
whose campaign contributions had put the district attorney
into office!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny went up to Paradise, and there was another bunch
of grief. In preparation for the coming struggle over the
wage-scale, the oil operators were weeding out the “trouble-makers,”
which meant the active union men. And now for
the first time, Ross Consolidated was following the policy of
the rest. Ben Riley, one of the fellows who met in the Rascum
cabin, had been told that he was no longer needed. They had
too many men, the foreman had said, but that was a plain lie,
because he had taken on half a dozen new men since. No,
Ben was a Socialist, and had talked at meetings in Paradise,
and distributed Socialist papers that showed the monstrous
wastes in the oil industry, and the world-rivalry for oil which
was to cause the next great war.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was Ruth who told Bunny about this; very seriously, with
distress in her gentle eyes. “It’s a shame, Bunny, because Ben
has got no place to go. And here he’s got a home, and a wife
and two little girls.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny was worried too; Dad had promised this kind of
thing should not happen!</p>

<p class="pindent">“Can’t you do something about it?” pleaded Ruth.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, but Ben was a pumper, and that’s in the department
of operation, and Dad only has to do with the development
work. He wouldn’t butt in on the superintendent of operation.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But then, ask him to give Ben a job on development.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’ll ask him, Ruth, but I know what he’ll say. If he undertook
to make jobs for men that other departments want to get
rid of, he’d make bad feeling. You know what a lot of fuss
he makes about good feeling inside the organization.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, Bunny, but then, what about Ben’s feeling, and all
the men?” Ruth persisted, with that surprising force that
gentle people sometimes display. Ruth did not understand
abstract questions, she had no theories about the “class
struggle;” but when it came to a human fact, a grievance, then
she was possessed by it, and as determined as Paul. These
men who came to the cabin to argue and discuss, they were
all her friends, and if they did not get a square deal, something
must be done!</p>

<p class="pindent">So here was Bunny, in his old tormenting position, watching
a fight which he was powerless to stop, or even to mitigate!
Ben Riley managed to get work on a ranch; he had to put in
twelve hours a day, but all the same, he would come onto the
tract at night and distribute his Socialist literature—and of
course with a burning sense of bitterness, shared by his friends.</p>

<p class="pindent">Tom Axton was back in the field, at his organizing job, and
he and Paul and Bunny had long discussions. Here in the oil
workers’ union, just as in the labor college, there was the problem
of what to do about the “reds.” You could never have any
big group of workers without Socialists and Communists and
I. W. W. among them—and all busily “boring.” Paul was
endorsing the position of Axton, that the one thing in the oil
industry was to save the union; all the workers must concentrate
on that, and avoid every cause of division. To this the
Socialists and the Communists made answer, all right, they
would help; but as the struggle developed, the bosses would
call in the police and the courts, and the oil workers, like all
other workers, would find they could not stay out of politics,
they would have to master the capitalist state. So far the
Socialists and Communists would agree; but then would come
the question, how was this mastering to be accomplished—and
at once the two groups would be imitating the Menzies family!</p>

<p class="pindent">The “Industrial Workers of the World,” as they called themselves,
were a separate group, men who had been revolted by
the corruption and lack of vision in the old-line unions, and
had formed a rival organization, the “One Big Union,” that
was some day to take in all the workers. They were hated by
the regular labor leaders, and the newspapers represented them
as criminals and thugs. When Bunny met one, he found a
young fellow clinging to an ideal in the spirit of the early
Christian martyrs. These “wobblies” were now being hunted
like wild beasts under the “criminal syndicalism act” of California;
every one who came into a labor camp or industrial
plant was liable to be picked up by a constable or company
“bull,” and the mere possession of a red card meant fourteen
years in state’s prison. Nevertheless, here they were in Paradise;
half a dozen of them had a “jungle” or camping place
out in the hills, and they would lure workingmen out to their
meetings, and you would see the glare of a camp-fire, and hear
the faint echo of the songs they sang out of their “little red
song book.” To Bunny this was romantic and mysterious;
while to Dad and Mr. Roscoe and the managers of Ross Consolidated,
it was as if the “jungle” had been located in the
province of Bengal, and the sounds brought in by the night
wind had been the screams of man-eating tigers!</p>

<h3>III</h3>

<p class="pindent">From these and all other troubles Bunny now had a way
of swift escape, the Monastery. Nobody up there had troubles—or
if they did, they didn’t load them onto him! “Make this
your country club,” Annabelle had said; “come when you
please and stay as long as you please. Our horses ought to be
ridden, and our books ought to be read, and there’s a whole
ocean—only watch out for the rip-tides!” So Bunny would
run up to this beautiful playground; and sometimes Vee Tracy
was there, and when she wasn’t she would turn up a few hours
later—quite mysteriously.</p>

<p class="pindent">She was several years older than he, and in knowledge of
the world older than he would be at a hundred. Nevertheless,
she was a good playmate. It was her business to be young in
both body and spirit—it was the way she earned her living,
and she practiced the game all the time. She had to live hard,
like an athlete in training, a pugilist before a battle. Who
could tell what strange freak might next occur to the author of a
novel, or to a “continuity man,” or a director dissatisfied with
the progress of a melodrama? She would find herself tied
upon a wild horse, or to a log in a saw-mill, or dragged by a
rope at the end of a speed-boat, or climbing a church steeple
on the outside. In ages past, in lands barbarian and civilized,
the hardships of the ascetic life have been imposed upon women
for many strange reasons; but was there ever one more freakish
than this—that she might appear before the eyes of millions in
the aspect of a terror-stricken virgin tearing herself from the
hands of lustful ravishers!</p>

<p class="pindent">Anyway, here she was, a playmate for a young idealist
running away from other people’s troubles. They would take
Annabelle’s unused horses, and ride them bareback over the
hills to the beach, and gallop them into the surf and swim them
there, to the great perplexity of the seals; or they would turn
the horses loose, and run foot-races, and turn hand-springs
and cart-wheels—Vee would go, a whirlwind of flying white
limbs and flying black hair, all the way into the water, and the
waves would be no wilder than her laughter. Then they would
sit, basking in the sun, and she would tell him stories about
Hollywood—and assuredly the waves were no wilder than
these. Anything might happen in Hollywood, and in fact had
happened—and Vee knew the people it had happened to.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny would go away, and find himself haunted by a figure
in a scanty one-piece bathing suit a figure youthful, sinewy but
graceful, vivid, swift. It was evident that she liked him, and
Bunny would wake up from his dreams and realize he liked
her. He would think about her when he ought to be studying;
and his thinking summed itself up in one question, “Why not?”
Echo, in the form of Dad and Mr. Roscoe and Annabelle Ames
and their friends, appeared to be answering, “Why not?” The
one person who would have answered otherwise was Henrietta
Ashleigh, and Henrietta, alas, was now hardly even a memory.
Bunny was not visiting the blue lagoon, nor saying prayers out
of the little black and gold books.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny would call Vee Tracy on the telephone, at the studio
or at her bungalow, and she was always ready for a lark. They
would go to one of the restaurants where the screen folk dined,
and then to one of the theatres where the same folk were pictured,
and she would tell him about the private lives of these
people—stories even stranger than the ones made up for them.
Very soon the screen world was putting one and one together
in its gossip. Vee Tracy had picked up a millionaire, an oil
prince—oh, millions and millions! And it was romantic, too,
he was said to be a Bolshevik! The glances and tones of voice
that Bunny encountered gave new echoes of the haunting
question—“Why not?”</p>

<h3>IV</h3>

<p class="pindent">Sitting on the beach, half dug into the sand, and staring out
over the blue water, Vee told him something about her life.
“I’m no spring chicken, Bunny, don’t imagine it. When I
came into this game, I had my own way to make, and I paid
the price, like every other girl. You’ll hear them lie about it,
but don’t be fooled; there are no women producers, and no
saints among the men.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny thought it over. “Can’t they be satisfied with finding
a good actress?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“She can be a good actress in the day-time, and a good
mistress at night; the man can have both, and he takes them.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It sounds rather ghastly,” said the other.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’ll tell you how it is, there’s such fierce competition in
this game, if you’re going to get ahead, nothing else matters,
nothing else is real. I know it was that way with me; I hung
round the doors of the studios—I was only fifteen—and I
starved and yearned, till I’d have slept with the devil to get
inside.”</p>

<p class="pindent">She sat, staring before her, and Bunny, watching her out of
the corner of his eye, saw that her face was grim.</p>

<p class="pindent">“There’s this to remember too,” she added; “a girl meets
a man that has a wad of money, and can take her out in a big
car, and buy her a good meal, and a lot of pretty clothes, and
set her up in a bungalow, and he’s a mighty big man to her,
it’s easy to think he’s something wonderful. It’s all right for
moralists to sniff, that don’t know anything about it; but the
plain truth is, the man that came with the cash and offered me
my first real start in a picture—he was just about the same as
a god to me, and it was only decent to give him what he wanted.
I had to live with him a few months, before I knew he was a
fat-headed fool.”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a silence. “I suppose,” said Vee, “you’re wondering
why I tell you this. I’m safe now, I’ve got some money
in the bank, and I might set up for a lady—put on swank and
forget the ugly past. If I’d told you I was an innocent virgin,
how would you have known? But I said to myself, ‘By God,
if having money means anything to me, it means I don’t have
to lie any more.’ ”</p>

<p class="pindent">Said Bunny: “I know a man that says that. It made a
great impression on me. I’d never known anybody like it
before.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, it makes you into a kind of savage. I’ve got an
awful reputation in the picture world—has anybody told you?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Not very much,” he answered.</p>

<p class="pindent">She looked at him sharply. “What have they told you? All
about Robbie Warden, I suppose?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Hardly all,” he smiled. “I heard you’d been in love with
him, and that you’d sort of been in mourning ever since.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I made a fool of myself twice over a man; Robbie was the
last time, and believe me, it’s going to stay the last. He put up
the money for the best picture I ever made, and he was handsome
as a god, and he begged me to marry him, and I really
meant to do it; but all the time he was fooling with two or
three other women, and one of them shot him, so that was the
end of my bright young dream. No, I’m not in mourning, I’m
in rejoicing because I missed a lot of trouble. But if I’m a bit
cynical about love, and a bit unrefined in my language, you can
figure it out.”</p>

<p class="pindent">And Vee shook the mountain of sand off her bare legs and
stood up. “Here’s how I keep off the fat,” she said, and put
her hands down on the sand where it was wet and firm, and
stood the rest of herself upon them, her slender white limbs
going straight up, and her face, upside down, laughing at
Bunny; in that position she walked by slow handsteps down to
the water, and then threw herself over in the other half of a
handspring, and lighted on her feet and dashed into the breakers.
“Come on in! The water’s fine!”</p>

<h3>V</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny thought over this conversation, and learned from it
his usual lesson of humility. Vee had had to fight for her
success; whereas he had never had to fight for anything. If
he wanted a moving picture career, Dad would arrange it for
him, the studio doors would fly open. And the same with any
other sort of career he could think of. How could he afford
to pass judgment on anybody?</p>

<p class="pindent">Also, while he listened to Vee Tracy, he had the memory
of Eunice Hoyt to keep him humble. No, people didn’t know
what was right about sex; or at any rate, if they did, they
didn’t make it clear. It was disagreeable to have to think
about so many other men; but then, too, it helped to clear the
atmosphere. She wouldn’t expect to marry him right off; there
were marriages among the screen people, but apparently not
until they had made sure they were happy. Also, it enabled
Bunny to be certain that Vee would not be shocked by the
knowledge that she was haunting his dreams.</p>

<p class="pindent">They were at the Monastery, and had been dancing, and
went out upon one of the loggias, or platforms, or terraces, or
whatever you call the outside of a cathedral. There was a
moon shining down—the same that had shone on Bunny and
Eunice, and on Bunny and Nina Goodrich. There was organ
music inside, and the scent of flowers outside, and Bunny was
thinking to himself, “What am I going to do about this?” It
couldn’t go on, that was certain; he had got so that he was
trembling all over. And yet, somehow, he seemed to be tongue-tied.
So far, all the girls had had to propose to him, and it
was quite absurd. What the dickens was the matter with him?</p>

<p class="pindent">In a faltering voice he suggested, “Let’s dance.” Vee
stood up, and he stood up; they had danced out onto this loggia,
or terrace or platform, and now they would dance back, and
he would be, literally, just where he had been before. No,
that wouldn’t do! He had a sudden fit of desperation; and
instead of the particular kind of embrace which has to do with
dancing, he put his arms about her in a way that made it
impossible for her to dance. This was a crude procedure, no
credit to a junior classman and leader of fashion in a high-toned
university. Bunny knew it, and was in a panic. She
would not understand—she would be angry, and send him away!</p>

<p class="pindent">But no, she was not angry; and somehow, she was able to
understand. There is an old saying, that fingers were made
before forks, and in the same way it is true that embraces
were made a long time before words. Bunny became aware
that his clasp was being returned—and by a pair of capable
arms, that were able to hold a girl upside down in the air and
carry her into the surf! It was all right! “Oh, Vee!” he
whispered. “Then you do care for me!” Her lips met his,
and they stood there in the moonlight, locked together, while
the organ music rose to a shout.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Vee, I was so scared!” And she laughed. “You silly
boy!” But suddenly she drew back her head.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Bunny, I want to talk to you. There’s something I must
say. Let me go, and sit down, please—no, in that chair over
there! I want us to talk quietly.”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was fear in her voice, and he did what she asked.
“What is it, Vee?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I want us to be sensible, and know what we’re doing. It
seems to me hardly anybody I know can be happy in love, and
I swore to God I never would get into it again.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You’ll have to get a new God!” Bunny had managed to
recover the use of his tongue.</p>

<p class="pindent">“I want us to promise to be happy! Any time we can’t be
happy, let’s quit, and not have any fuss! Let’s be sensible, and
not go crazy with jealousy, and torment each other.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You’ll be a plenty for me,” declared Bunny. “I surely
won’t make you jealous!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You don’t know what you’ll do! Nobody ever knows!
It’s the devil’s own business—oh, you’ve no idea what I’ve
seen, Bunny! You’re nothing but a babe in arms.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You’ll be good to me, Vee, and raise me up!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“How do you know what I’ll do? How do you know anything
about me? You want me, without really knowing what
I am or what I’ll do! I could have told you a million lies, and
how would you have known? The next woman that comes
along will tell you a million and one, and how will you know
about her?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s too easy, Vee—you’ll tell me!”</p>

<p class="pindent">He sank down on his knees before her, and took one of her
hands, intending to comfort her; but she pushed it away. “No,
I don’t want you to do that. I want you to think about what
I’m saying. I want us to decide in cold blood.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You make my blood cold,” he laughed, “telling about the
vamps of Hollywood!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Bunny, a man and a woman ought to tell each other the
truth—all the time. They ought to trust each other that much,
no matter how much it hurts. Isn’t that so?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You bet it’s so.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“If that means they give each other up, all right—but they’ve
no business holding each other by lies. Will you make that
bargain, Bunny?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I will.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“And I want you to know, I don’t want any of your money.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I haven’t got any money, Vee—it’s all Dad’s. That is the
first painful truth.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, I don’t want it. I’ve got my own, and I’ll take care
of myself. I’ve got a job, and you’ll have yours, and we’ll let
each other alone, and meet when it makes both of us happy.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s too easy for a man, Vee!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’ll be a game, and those are the rules, and if we break
the rules, it’s cheating.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny could assure her that he had never cheated in a
game, and would not cheat in this one. So he overcame her
fears, and she was in his arms again, and they were exchanging
those ravishing kisses, of which for a time it seems impossible
ever to have enough. Presently she whispered, “Some one will
come out here, Bunny. Let me go in, and I’ll dance a bit, and
then make my excuses and get away, and you come up to
my room.”</p>

<h3>VI</h3>

<p class="pindent">Had anybody seen them in the moonlight? Or had Vee
whispered the secret to Annabelle? Or was it just the light
of happiness radiating from the eyes of the young couple?
Anyhow, it was evident next day that the truth was out, and
there was an atmosphere of festivity about the Monastery.
Nobody went so far as to sprinkle rice on the pair, or to throw
old shoes at them, or tie white ribbons to their cars; but there
were friendly smiles, and sly jests, enough to keep the play
spirit alive. Annabelle, of course, was enraptured; she had
planned this from the beginning, she had picked this young
oil prince for her friend from the day that Verne had told her
about him. And Verne—well, you can imagine that when he
started to make jokes on such a subject, nobody was left in
doubt as to what had happened!</p>

<p class="pindent">Strangely enough, when Bunny got home, he found this
spirit of orange blossoms and white ribbons in some mysterious
way communicated to Dad. Could it be that Verne, the old
rascal, had taken the trouble to telephone the news? Here was
Dad, shining with satisfaction, and Bunny could read his every
thought. Dad had met Vee Tracy, and liked her fine. A
motion picture star—by golly, that was something to brag
about! That was the right sort of career for a young oil
prince—quite in the aristocratic tradition! Bunny would have
something else in his mind now but this fool Bolshevik business!</p>

<p class="pindent">Presently here was Dad trying to drop hints—with about
as much tact as you would expect from a full grown rhinoceros!
Had Vee Tracy been up at the Monastery this time? Say, that
was a live wire, that girl! Verne said she got as high as four
thousand a week; and that was no press agent money either.
She had more brains than all the male dolls put together; she
had money salted away, owned lots all over Hollywood. She’d
come to Verne to ask his advice about Ross Consolidated, and
he had told her to go the limit, and by golly, she had brought
him a cashier’s check for fifty thousand dollars, and had got a
block of the stock at the opening price, and now it was worth
three times that, and Vee said that Verne had saved her from
six rapings! Then the old rhinoceros went on and explained
what Vee had meant—that she wouldn’t have to act in six
pictures!</p>

<p class="pindent">And then there was Bertie, who got the news at once
because it happened that Charlie Norman’s bootlegger was in
love with Annabelle Ames’ sister. Right away Bertie was
curious to meet Vee Tracy, and ordered Bunny to bring her
to lunch. Vee was uneasy about this—declaring that sisters
always poisoned men against sweethearts. But Bunny laughed
and said he had plenty of antitoxins against Bertie. So they
met, and everything went off beautifully; Vee was humble, and
anxious to please, and Bertie was the great lady, supremely
gracious. That was according to the proprieties, for Vee was
only an actress, while Bertie was in real “society,” her doings
appearing in a sanctified part of the newspaper, where the
screen people seldom broke in. After the luncheon, Bertie
told her brother that Vee was all right, and maybe she would
teach him a little sense; which, from a sister, was the limit of
cordiality.</p>

<p class="pindent">So there they were, everything hunkydory. Bunny’s sleep
was no longer disturbed by dreams; the dream had become a
reality, and it was his. When they visited the Monastery, they
were placed in connecting rooms; and when he went to visit
Vee at her bungalow, the discreet elderly lady who kept house
for her would quietly disappear. As for the moving picture
colony, it said nothing more—having already said everything
there was to say.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny would call Vee on the telephone, and if it was a
Saturday or holiday, they would make a date; but if it was a
week-day, Vee would say, “No, Bunny, you ought to stay home
and study.”</p>

<p class="pindent">He would answer, “Oh, bosh, Vee, I’m a whole week ahead
of my classes.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But Bunny, if I make you neglect your work, your father
will get down on me!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Dad’s more in love with you than I am! He thinks you’re
the brightest star in the movie zodiac.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“We just mustn’t overdo it, Bunny! Your conscience will
get to troubling you, and you’ll blame it on me.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Dog-gone-it, Vee, you boss me worse than if we were
Annabelle and Roscoe.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, let me tell you, if I manage to keep my oil prince as
long as Annabelle has kept hers, I’ll count myself a lucky
woman!”</p>

<h3>VII</h3>

<p class="pindent">Gregor Nikolaieff was back from his trip to Alaska, with
more troubles for the conscience of a young idealist. Gregor
was gaunt and hollow-eyed, like Paul returned from Siberia.
Poor unsuspecting foreign youth—he had shipped on what the
sailors call “the hell fleet of the Pacific,” and had found himself
trapped in a desolate bay, walled in by mountains on one
side and ocean on the other, housed in barracks whose floors
were wet by the tides, sleeping in vermin-ridden bunks, and
eating food like that fed to the inmates of county jails. No
way of escape, save on ships that would not take you! While
Bunny had been romping in the Pacific with Vee and the seals,
Gregor had been near to drowning himself in the same ocean.</p>

<p class="pindent">Also Rachel Menzies had come home, with more troubles;
there was a strike of the clothing workers! Quite unforeseen
and spontaneous—hundreds of workers, driven beyond endurance
by petty oppressions, had walked out in the middle of a
job; the movement had spread all over this Angel City, paradise
of the “open shop.” The workers were crowding into the
union offices and signing up, and a regular mass-struggle was
under way. But Papa Menzies, one of the intellectuals among
the strikers, a man of force and insight—Papa Menzies was
sitting at home, with his frantic Hebrew wife clinging to his
coat-tails and wailing that if he went out and took part in the
strike, the police would get him and ship him off to Poland to
be shot, and never to see his family again!</p>

<p class="pindent">As a result of this strike, Rachel was not going to be able
to come to college. Bunny, elegant young gentleman of leisure,
who had never known what it was to need money in his life,
could not understand this, and had to be told in plain words
that Rachel’s family had been making sacrifices to get her an
education, and all these plans were knocked out. Then of
course Bunny wanted to get Dad to help; what was the use of
having a rich father, if you couldn’t serve your friends in a
pinch? But Rachel answered no, they had always been independent,
and she would not think of such a thing; she would
have to skip a term in the university.</p>

<p class="pindent">“But then you won’t be in my class!” exclaimed Bunny—realizing
suddenly how much he needed an antitoxin for the
dullness of Southern Pacific culture!</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’s very kind of you, Mr. Ross,” she answered, sedately.
“But perhaps you will come to the meetings of the Socialist
local.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But see here, really, I can get the money without the least
trouble; and you don’t have to consider it a gift, you can pay
it back when you want to. Won’t it be easier to earn money
if you have a college degree?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Rachel admitted that; she had meant to get a position as a
social worker—she had come to this university because there
were special courses which would make such a career possible.
Bunny pleaded, why not take Dad’s money, with no strings
to it whatever, and pay him back ten or twenty dollars a
month out of her future salary. But Rachel was stubborn—some
strange impulse born of her “class-consciousness.”
He felt so keenly about it that without saying anything to
her, he got into his car and drove to the home of the Menzies
family. He had the address in his notebook, and it did not
occur to him that she or her family might be embarrassed to
have him see the way they lived—in a wretched slum district,
crowded into a little three-room house on the back of a lot,
without a shred of a green thing in sight. It was a rented
place, Papa Menzies having put his money into Socialism,
instead of into real estate and shrubbery. Bunny found him in
a crowded front room, with furniture and books, and a job of
sewing, and the remains of a meal of bread and herring, and
the proofs of an article which he was getting ready for a strike
bulletin, and a fat old Jewish lady rushing about in a panic,
trying to put things away from the sight of this alarmingly
fashionable visitor.</p>

<p class="pindent">None of that bothered the old man; he was used to confusion,
and all wrapped up in the strike. He told Bunny about
it, and read his article, a bitter statement of the grievances of
the clothing workers. And then Bunny got down to the question
of Rachel and her education, insisting that Chaim Menzies
should persuade his daughter not to give up her career. Mrs.
Menzies sat, staring with her large dark eyes, trying to understand;
and suddenly she broke into a torrent of excited Yiddish,
of which it was just as well that Bunny could not make out a
word. For Mamma Menzies placed no trust in this handsome
young goy, and put the worst possible construction upon his
visit; he was trying to lure their daughter into sin, and maybe
he had already done so—who could tell what sort of life she
was living, with all these atheist and Socialist ideas in her head,
and going to a college run by a lot of Krists!</p>

<p class="pindent">Papa Menzies bade her sternly to hold her tongue, which
according to the Hebrew law she was supposed to do; but
apparently she took her Hebrew law with as many allowances
as the Krists took theirs. In the middle of her torrents of
Yiddish, Chaim thanked Bunny for his kindness, and explained
that what was worrying Rachel was the hard time the family
would have during the strike. If Bunny would help the family,
then it would be easy for Rachel to help herself. So they
shook hands, and Bunny went home to report to Dad that he
had acquired the responsibility of supporting half a dozen
Jewish clothing workers!</p>

<h3>VIII</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny was back at Southern Pacific. It was the line of
least resistance; a nice, clean occupation, honorific and easy on
the nerves. One who was good-looking and wealthy, and knew
how to charm the professors, could get by with almost no work
at all, and have abundant time to read Bolshevik propaganda,
and watch strikes happen; also to sport about town with a
moving picture star, to drive and dine and dance with her,
and escort her to week-end parties of the Hollywood élite.</p>

<p class="pindent">He might even have found time to visit the studio and watch
her at work on her new picture; but she would not let him do
this. She was too much in love with him, she could not concentrate
with him looking on. Moreover, she said, her work
was horrid, all pictures were horrid; Bunny wouldn’t like what
she was doing. It was just a way she earned her living, and
she had to do what other people told her; it was without any
relation to life, and Bunny, who was serious and educated,
would think it childish, or worse. She liked him to be serious,
he was a dear and all that, and one of the few men who really
could tell her something about the world; he must go on being
like that, and not pay any attention to her pictures.</p>

<p class="pindent">It struck Bunny as a little mysterious; she protested too
much. And before long he discovered the reason—in some of
the gossip about the screen world which filled pages upon pages
of the newspapers. Vee Tracy was working on a picture about
Russia! She was to be a beautiful princess of the old regime,
caught in the storm of the revolution, falling into the hands of
the Bolsheviks, and making one of her famous “get-aways”
with the aid of a handsome young American secret service
man! Vee had been working on this picture for the past six
months; and right in the middle of it, she had gone and got
herself a “parlor Bolshevik” for a lover, and now was afraid
to let him know what she was doing!</p>

<p class="pindent">Poor Bunny, he was making such earnest and devoted
efforts to ride on two horses at once! And the horses kept
getting farther and farther apart, until he was all but split in
the middle! Here was this strike of the clothing workers,
breaking in upon the peace of America’s premier “open shop”
city. It was the climax of a series of disorders—first a walk-out
of the street railwaymen, and then of the carpenters; it was
evident that the program of the reds, “boring from within,”
was having a terrifying success, and the thing had to be stopped,
once for all. The city council passed an anti-picketing ordinance,
which forbade anyone to even make an ugly face in
front of a place where there was a strike. Since not all the
clothing workers had faces of natural beauty, there was much
infringement of this law, and very soon the papers were full of
accounts of riots, valiantly put down by the police. A part of
Bunny’s curriculum at the university consisted of having Rachel
Menzies describe to him and the rest of the “red bunch” how
girls who were doing nothing but walking up and down the
street in pairs, were being seized by the police and having their
arms twisted out of joint.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then one morning Rachel did not show up in class; next
day came a note for Bunny telling him that Jacob Menzies had
been clubbed almost insensible on the picket-line. Jacob was
the “right wing” brother, the pale, stoop-shouldered one who
had been earning his education by pressing students’ pants; and
Bunny had so far departed from the safe rule of dodging other
people’s troubles that he felt it his duty to drive over to the
Menzies’ home, and have his feelings harrowed by the sight of
Jacob Menzies in bed, pale as the sheets, and with a Hindoo
turban wound about his head. There was Mamma Menzies,
with tears streaming down her cheeks, wailing over and over
one Yiddish word that Bunny could understand—“Oi! Oi! Oi!”
Chaim Menzies, the father, was nowhere to be seen, because
he had torn his coat-tails loose from his wife’s fingers, and was
over at strike headquarters, doing his duty.</p>

<p class="pindent">The next afternoon, coming out from his classes, Bunny
saw on a newsstand the familiar green color of the “Evening
Booster,” and his eye was caught—as it was meant to be caught—by
flaring headlines:</p>

<p class="line" style="text-align:center;margin-top:1em;margin-bottom:1em;">POLICE RAID RED CENTER</p>

<p class="noindent">So Bunny purchased a paper—as it was meant that he should
do—and read how that morning a squad from police headquarters
had invaded the rooms of the clothing workers’ union,
and taken off nearly a truck-load of documents which were
expected to prove that the disturbance in the city’s industry
was being directed and financed by the red revolutionists of
Moscow. The officials of the union were under arrest, one of
those apprehended being Chaim Menzies, “self-confessed
socialistic agitator.”</p>

<h3>IX</h3>

<p class="pindent">So there was another job for Bunny. He didn’t know
quite how to set about it, and Dad was on the way to Paradise,
and could not be consulted. Bunny went to see Dad’s lawyer,
Mr. Dolliver, a keen-witted, soft-spoken gentleman who had no
sympathy with reds, but, like all lawyers, was prepared for
any weird trouble his wealthy clients might bring along. He
called up police headquarters and ascertained that the self-confessed
socialistic agitator was to be arraigned the following
day; bail would be set at that time, and it would be up to Bunny
to have the cash on hand, or real estate to twice the amount.
Bunny said he wanted to see the prisoner, and Mr. Dolliver
said he knew the chief of police, and might be able to arrange it.</p>

<p class="pindent">He wrote a note, and Bunny went over to the dingy old
building which had been erected to serve a city of fifty thousand,
and was now serving one of a million. The chief proved to be
a burly person in civilian clothing, smelling strongly of civilian
whiskey; he requested Bunny to sit down, and summoned a
couple of detectives, and began an obvious effort to find out
all that Bunny knew about Chaim Menzies, and Bunny’s ideas,
and Chaim’s ideas. And Bunny, who was growing up fast in
an ugly world, gave a carefully phrased exposition of the difference
between the right and left wings of the Socialist movement.
Finding that he could not be trapped into indiscretions,
and knowing that he was a millionaire’s son, and could not be
thrown into a cell, the chief gave him up, and told one of the
detectives to take him in to see the prisoner.</p>

<p class="pindent">So Bunny got a glimpse of his city’s jail. The old building
was cracked, and had been condemned as a menace to life by
half a dozen successive commissions; nevertheless, here it was,
a monument to the greed of real estate speculators, who cared
nothing about a city’s good name, provided only its tax-rate
were low. The mouldy old place stank, and if you looked carefully,
you might see vermin crawling on the walls. The
prisoners were confined in a number of “tanks,” which were
steel-barred cages holding thirty or forty men each, with no ray
of daylight, and not enough artificial light to enable anyone to
read. This city, so oddly named “Angel,” appeared anxious
to cultivate all possible vices in its victims, for it provided them
no reading matter, and no exercise or recreation, but permitted
them to have cards, dice and cigarettes—and the jailers
secretly smuggled in whiskey and cocaine to such as had money
for bribes.</p>

<p class="pindent">In one of these tanks sat Papa Menzies—on the floor, since
there was no other place to sit. He appeared quite contented,
having gathered round him the entire congregation of the cell,
to hear about the struggle of the clothing workers, and how it
was up to the toilers of the world to organize and abolish the
capitalist system. When Bunny appeared, the old man jumped
up and grabbed him by the hand; and Bunny said quickly, “Mr.
Menzies, you should know that this gentleman with me is a
detective.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Papa Menzies grinned. “Sure, I got notting to hide. I
been a member of de Socialist party for tventy years. I believe
in de ballot box—dey vill find notting to de contrary, unless
dey make it. I have been telling dese boys vat Socialism is,
and I vill tell dis gentleman, if he vants to listen. I have been
helping de cloding vorkers stand togedder for decent conditions,
and I am going on vid it de day I git out again.” So
that was that!</p>

<p class="pindent">And in the evening Bunny phoned to his father and told
him the situation. Bunny had been accustomed to sign his
father’s name to checks of any size, and had been careful not
to abuse the privilege; but now he was proposing to draw
fifteen thousand dollars, because they would probably fix the
bail very high, in the hope of keeping the old man in jail until
the strike had been broken. There was no risk involved, Bunny
declared, for Menzies was the soul of honor, and would not
run away.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad made a wry face over the telephone—but what could
he do? His dearly beloved son was ablaze with indignation,
and insisted that he knew all about it, there was no possibility
whatever that this old clothing worker might be a secret agent
of the Soviet government, deliberately planted in Angel City
to destroy American institutions. How Bunny could know
such things Dad couldn’t imagine, but he had never known his
boy to be so wrought up, and finally he said all right, but to
have Mr. Dolliver send somebody to court with the money, so
that Bunny would not get his name into the newspapers again.</p>

<h3>X</h3>

<p class="pindent">The matter was handled as Dad ordered; the lawyer’s clerk
went to court, and came back and reported that the prisoners
had appeared, but Chaim Menzies had not been among them.
His case had been taken over by the Federal authorities, because
it had been discovered that he was born in Russian Poland,
and it was proposed to cancel his naturalization papers and
deport him. Chaim had been transferred to the county jail,
another condemned structure, fully as dingy and filthy as the
city jail. There was no longer anything you could do about it,
because in these deportation cases the courts were refusing to
intervene, holding them to be administrative matters. The
Democratic attorney-general had failed in his effort to get the
nomination for president by his campaign against the reds,
but the machinery he had set going was still grinding out misery
for guilty and innocent alike.</p>

<p class="pindent">So here was some real trouble for Bunny! Over at the
Menzies home was Rachel, white-faced and pacing the floor,
and Mamma Menzies wailing and tearing her clothing. It was
impossible even to get word to poor Chaim—he was “incommunicado”;
indeed, he might already have been put onto a train
for the east. After that there would be no chance for him
whatever—he would be dumped onto a steamer for Dantzig,
and there turned over to the Polish “white terror.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny insisted that something must be tried, and so Mr.
Dolliver called in a couple of still more expensive lawyers—at
Dad’s expense—and they debated habeas corpuses and injunctions
and other mystical formulas, and made out a lot of papers
and tried this court and that, all in vain. Meantime, in response
to frantic commands from his son, Dad broke the speed laws
from Paradise; and when he arrived, there were Bunny and
his Jewish girl-friend waiting on his front-porch. They dragged
him into his den and made him listen to a disquisition on the
difference between the right and left wings of the Socialist
movement, with a complete description of the activities of a
literature agent of the Socialist party. In the middle of it
Rachel burst into tears, and sank down upon the sofa; and
Dad, who was really no more able to stand a woman weeping
than was Bunny, went over and patted her on the shoulder,
and said, “There, there, little girl, never mind! I’ll get him
out, even if I have to send a man to New York!”</p>

<p class="pindent">So Dad stepped out and sped away in his car. That was
about lunch-time—and a little before three o’clock of that same
day, who should emerge from a taxi-cab in front of the Menzies
tenement but Chaim himself, dirty and unshaven, but smiling
and serene, and ready to continue his labors for his “cloding
vorkers”! He hadn’t the least idea how it had happened; the
keepers of the county jail had volunteered no information as
they turned him loose, and Chaim had not stopped for questions.
He never did know, and neither did his daughter, for
what Dad told Bunny was strictly confidential, a bit of oil men’s
secret lore.</p>

<p class="pindent">“What did I do? I called in an old friend of ours, Ben
Skutt.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Ben Skutt!” Bunny had not thought of their “lease-hound”
for years.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, Ben is high up in this defense business now, and he
did it for me.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What did you tell him?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Tell him? I told him one grand.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“One what?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s bootlegger’s slang. I gave him five hundred dollars,
and said, ‘Ben, go and see the man that’s got that old kike in
jail and tell him to turn him loose, and then come back to me
and I’ll give you another five hundred!’ ”</p>

<p class="pindent">“My God!” said Bunny.</p>

<p class="pindent">And Dad took a couple of puffs at his big cigar. “Now
you see why we oil men have to be in politics!”</p>

<h3>XI</h3>

<p class="pindent">Besides completing Bunny’s political education, this incident
was important to him in another way; it was the cause of Vee
Tracy’s taking over the management of his life. Ross senior
got the moving picture lady on the telephone that very evening,
and he said, “Look here, Vee, you’re laying down on your job!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“How do you mean, Mr. Ross?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“My name is Dad,” said the voice, “and what I mean is that
you’re not taking care of my son like I wanted you to do. He’s
been a-gettin’ into trouble with these Bolshevikis again, and it’s
all because you don’t see enough of him.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But Mr.—Dad—I’ve been trying to make him study—I
thought that was what you wanted.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, you forget about him studyin’, that’s all bunk, it
ain’t a-goin’ to do him no good, and besides, he don’t do it; he
jist goes off to Socialist meetin’s, and he’d better be with you.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, Dad!” There was a little catch in Vee’s voice.
“There’s nothing I’d like better! I’m just crazy about that
boy!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, you take him under your wing and keep him there,
and if you can get him loose from these reds, I’ll remember
you in my will.”</p>

<p class="pindent">So after that Bunny found that he could have a date with
his beloved at any hour of the day or night. She never told
him the reason—no, her idea of truth-telling did not go that
far! She let him think it was because of his overwhelming
charms, and his male egotism was satisfied with the explanation.
She would make feeble pretenses at resistance. “Oh,
Bunny, Dad will think I’m wasting your time, he’ll call me a
vamp!” And Bunny would answer, “You goose, he knows that
if I’m not with you, I may be off at some Socialist meeting.”</p>

<p class="pindent">They were so happy, so happy! The rapture of fresh young
souls and fresh young bodies, eager, quivering in every nerve!
Their love suffused their whole beings; everything became
touched with magic—the sound of their voices, the gestures of
their hands, even the clothing they wore, the cars they drove,
the houses they lived in. They flew together—the telephone
girls were overworked keeping them in touch. Bunny became
what in the slang of the time was known as a “one-arm driver”;
also he studied the arts of cajoling professors and cutting lectures.
His conscience was easy, for had he not done his duty
by the Socialist movement, with that “one grand” of Dad’s?
Besides, the strike was over, and the clothing workers had won
a few concessions; the leaders had been released, and the
promised “Moscow revelations” forgotten by the newspapers,
and therefore by everybody else.</p>

<p class="pindent">Vee would still not let Bunny come to the studio where she
was working. For the next picture, perhaps, but not this one;
he and his Bolsheviks wouldn’t like it, and he must put off
seeing it as long as possible. But all the rest of her time was
his—every precious instant! The elderly housekeeper received
a five-dollar bill now and then, and was deaf, dumb and blind.
Vee’s room in the bungalow was upstairs, the only second-story
room, open on all four sides, and with ivy wreathing its windows;
inside it was all white, a bower of loveliness. Here they
belonged to each other; and tears of ecstasy would come into
Vee’s eyes. “Oh, Bunny, Bunny! I swore I’d never do this;
and here I am, worse in love than I ever dreamed! Bunny, if
you desert me, I shall die!” He would smother her fears in
kisses; it was a case for the application of another old saying,
that actions speak louder than words!</p>

<p class="pindent">There was no cloud in the sky of their happiness; except
just one little cloud, no bigger than a man’s hand! Bunny did
not see it at all; and the woman saw it for an instant or so, and
then looked the other way. Oh, surely the rose will bloom
forever!</p>

<h3>XII</h3>

<p class="pindent">The hands of destiny, turning upon the face of the movie
clock, had brought Vee’s hour of glory again. The great picture
was ready, and once more she was on all the billboards of
the city: “Schmolsky-Superba presents Viola Tracy in the
twelve-reel Superspecial, ‘The Devil’s Deputy, Million Dollar
Heart Drama of the Russian Revolution.’ ” The scene which
ornamented the billboards disclosed Vee, as usual with her
lingerie torn, crouching in the arms of the ineffably handsome
young American secret service agent, and the agent presenting
a revolver to a mass of tangled black whiskers, behind which
hideous foreign faces lurked.</p>

<p class="pindent">Also there was publicity in the newspapers, columns and
columns about the picture, the authors of the book, the continuity
man and the director and the writer of the titles and the
artists and the decorators and the costumers and the musicians;
but most of all about the star. Was it to be expected that the
publicity man should drop no hint to the reporters about the
fascinating young oil prince who had now become Miss Tracy’s
most intimate friend? It had been expected by Bunny, and
maybe by Dad, but assuredly not by anyone else. The reporters
laid siege to the young prince, and sweet, sentimental sob-sister
ladies sought to lure him into revealing how it felt to be the
very, very dearest dear friend of such a brilliantly scintillating
star of the movie heavens. One day it was rumored they were
engaged to marry, and the next day they were not; and if they
said nothing, the reporters knew what they ought to have said.
And when Bunny would not give his picture, they snapped him
on the street, and when he turned his face away, they gave it
a jolly caption: “Oil Prince Is Shy!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“The Devil’s Deputy” was to have its “world premiere” at
Gloobry’s Million Dollar Melanesian Theatre; and these “world
premieres” are, as you may know, the great social events of
Southern California. Searchlights search the clouds and bombs
boom in the sky; red fire makes an imitation Hades in the
streets, and kleig lights make day in the arcade which the million
dollar Melanesians hold upright upon their naked shoulders.
The crowds pack the streets, and swarms of burglars invade
the city, because all the police department is required to make
a pathway for the movie stars as they move in their appointed
courses, from their shining ten thousand dollar limousines,
across the sidewalk and through the arcade and under the
million dollar portals. The kleigs glare upon them, and a
dozen moving picture cameras grind, and flashlights boom, and
the crowd surges and quivers and murmurs with ecstasy.</p>

<p class="pindent">Never in all human history has there been such glory;
never have the eyes of mortals beheld such royal pageantry!
Trappers and hunters have perished in the icy wastes of the
arctic to bring the ermines and sables in which these queens
are robed; divers have been torn by sharks to bring up their
pearls from the depths of tropic seas, and miners have been
crushed in the deep earth to dig their blazing diamonds;
chemists have blown themselves up in search for their cosmetics
and dyes, and seamstresses have grown blind embroidering the
elaborate designs which twinkle upon their silken ankles. All
this concentrated in one brief glory-march—do you wonder that
heads are high and glances regal? Or that the crowd surges,
and rushes wildly, and women faint, and ambulances come
clanging?</p>

<p class="pindent">Inside the theatre, over the head of one of the million
dollar Melanesians, is a huge megaphone; and as the great
ones descend from their cars, a giant’s voice acquaints the
audience with their progress. “Mr. Abraham Schmolsky is
coming through the arcade. Mr. Schmolsky is accompanied by
Mrs. Schmolsky. Mrs. Schmolsky wears a blue satin opera
cloak trimmed with chinchilla, made by Voisin, just brought by
Mrs. Schmolsky from Paris. Mrs. Schmolsky wears her
famous tiara of diamonds. Mr. and Mrs. Schmolsky are now
entering the theatre. Mr. and Mrs. Schmolsky have stopped to
talk with Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Gloobry.”</p>

<p class="pindent">And so on and on, thrill after thrill—until at last, exactly
at the sacred hour of eight-thirty, the supreme, the superthrill
of the evening:</p>

<p class="pindent">“Miss Viola Tracy is descending from her car. Miss Tracy
is accompanied by her friend, Mr. J. Arnold Ross, junior,
discoverer and heir-apparent of the Ross Junior oil field, of
Paradise, California. Miss Tracy and Mr. Ross are coming
through the arcade. Miss Tracy wears a cloak of gorgeous
ermine furs; her slippers are of white satin, trimmed with
pearls. She wears a collar of pearls and a pearl head-dress,
presented to her by Mr. J. Arnold Ross, senior. Miss Tracy
and Mr. Ross junior are in the lobby, shaking hands with Mr.
and Mrs. Schmolsky and Mr. and Mrs. Gloobry”—and so on,
until Miss Tracy and Mr. Ross junior are in their seats, and
history is at liberty to begin.</p>

<h3>XIII</h3>

<p class="pindent">So Bunny saw the Russian picture. His beloved was the
beautiful bride of a grand duke; the gestures, the kisses, the
raptures of love, which had been rehearsed upon himself, were
now lavished upon a magnificent, sharp-whiskered personage in
a military uniform with many stars and orders. This personage
was haughty but high-minded, and his grand duchess was the
soul of charity; and oh, such lovely gentle peasants as she had
to exercise her charity upon! How sweetly they curtsied,
how charmingly they danced, and gathered to cheer and throw
flowers after the grand ducal carriage! It was a beautiful,
almost idyllic world—one was tempted really to doubt whether
any world so perfect ever had existed on earth.</p>

<p class="pindent">There was only one thing wrong with it, and that was a
secret band of villains with twisted, degenerate faces, some of
them with wild hair and big spectacles, others with ferocious
black whiskers and knives in their boots. They met to concoct
anarchist manifestoes, intended to seduce the sweet innocent
peasants; and to make dynamite bombs to blow up noble-minded
grand dukes. They drank in booze-dens, and grabbed women
by the arms and man-handled them, right out before one
another. There was no wickedness these creatures did not do,
and their leader, with the face of a rat and the arms of a
gorilla, made evident to the dullest mind why the picture was
called “The Devil’s Deputy.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Then came the young secret service man, clean-cut, smooth-shaven,
quick on the trigger. His job was to get messages
from the American embassy to the American fleet, and later on
to save the treasure of the embassy from the Bolsheviks. For
of course you know what happened in Russia—how this band
of villains with twisted faces rose up and overthrew the government,
and killed the haughty but just grand duke with cruel
tortures. It was, of course, the grand duchess that the Devil’s
Deputy especially wanted; and first he chased her about the
castle, and battered in the doors, and the young secret service
hero dashed with her from room to room. Blood ran down his
face from a bullet wound, but he carried her out of a window
of the castle, and away they flew on horseback, over hills and
dales covered with the familiar Russian eucalyptus trees.</p>

<p class="pindent">And then presently they were trapped in St. Petersburg,
and the Devil’s Deputy laid his foul hands on Vee, and tore
her lingerie to shreds, as the billboards had promised you he
would. But here came the hero with his automatic, and he
held the mob at bay, while Vee behind her back made signals
to a friend of the hero who was preparing one of the villains’
own bombs to throw at them—could you imagine more poetic
justice than that? Vee and her savior fled, this time in a motor-car,
over roads of the well-known Russian concrete, through
the well-known mountains of the suburbs of St. Petersburg,
and came to the River Neva, with its eucalyptus groves concealing
a speed-boat. There was another mad chase, which ended
in the capture of the agonized pair, and more tearing of Vee’s
lingerie by the Devil’s Deputy.</p>

<p class="pindent">But—don’t be worried—at the most critical instant came
the American Navy, that whole glorious flotilla which we kept
in the River Neva during the war. Old Glory floated in the
breeze, and the band played “The Stars and Stripes Forever,”
and the million dollar audience burst into enraptured cheering.
A launch from a battleship came dashing up, the Devil’s Deputy
leaped into the water with one of his own bombs in his
mouth, and Viola Tracy and the secret service man stood
clasped in an attitude which was familiar to Bunny, and hardly
less so to the million dollar audience.</p>

<p class="pindent">All the time this story was unfolding, Bunny was privileged
to sit and hold the heroine’s hand. Once she leaned to him and
whispered, “Is it so very bad?” His answer was, “It is up to
standard. It will sell.” It was the formula she had used with
Annabelle Ames; and Bunny felt a tight pressure of his hand.
It was clever of him, as well as kind!</p>

<h3>XIV</h3>

<p class="pindent">The screen was dark, and the cheering died away, and the
lights came up, and the moving picture world crowded about
Vee Tracy, and Mr. Schmolsky, the producer, and Tommy
Paley, the director, and all the rest of the personages whose
services had been faithfully catalogued on the film. There was
hand-shaking and chatter; and meantime the crowds stood
about, gaping at the celebrities—it was hard to get the theatre
empty after a “world premiere.” The throngs in the lobby,
and outside in the arcade, were still held back by the police—many
had stood for three hours, in order to see their favorites
emerge.</p>

<p class="pindent">Vee and her lover went out among the last, greeting this
one, greeting that one, the observed of all observers. Bunny
saw many he knew, and among them one face he had not
expected—Rachel Menzies! She saw him, and he saw that
she saw him; and straightway it became a point of honor with
a young idealist, he must not fail to treat her as well as anybody
else. Rachel, a poor working-girl, and class-conscious,
pitiful in a dingy, worn coat and a faded, out-of-fashion hat—Rachel
must not think that he would slight her in this expensive
company! He went straight to her. “How do you do, Miss
Menzies? I didn’t know you were a movie fan.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’m not,” she answered. “But I wanted to see what they
would do to the Russian revolution.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“There wasn’t much in it for us,” said Bunny; and she
answered, grimly, “No, there was not.”</p>

<p class="pindent">He would have liked to talk with her, but not in this place.
“Can I help you out?” he asked; and turned as if to seek a
way through the crowd.</p>

<p class="pindent">But at that moment came Vee! With all the throngs of the
great ones about her, with all the praise they poured upon her,
there was one thing she really cared about, and that was
Bunny—she did not want to be separated from him! And
straightway, of course, the honor of a young idealist was still
more deeply involved. He must not be unwilling to introduce
his dingy working-girl friend to the gorgeous lady of the
ermines and pearls! “Meet Miss Viola Tracy,” he said. “Vee,
this is Miss Rachel Menzies, a class-mate of mine at the
university.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Equally, it was a point of honor with Vee to be cordial.
“Oh, how do you do, Miss Menzies?” And she held out her
hand. Rachel did not move to take the hand, but stood very
stiff and straight, and answered, “How do you do, Miss Tracy.”
To Bunny, who knew her, the voice sounded strange and dead;
but of course Vee had no means of knowing what her voice
ought to be, and the withheld hand might easily be shyness at
meeting the most important person in all Hollywood that night.
Vee was still cordial as she inquired, “And how did you like
the picture?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny heard that question—more dangerous than any bomb
ever made by a Devil’s Deputy! He groped in his bewildered
mind for something to say—“Miss Menzies is a Socialist, like
me”—anything of that playful sort; but before he could get his
tongue to move, Rachel had answered, swift and deadly, “I
think it’s the most poisonous thing I ever saw on the screen.”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was no mistaking that for shyness, or anything else.
And Viola Tracy stared at this amazing creature. “Oh, indeed,
Miss!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, and people who helped to make it will someday have
on their conscience the blood of millions of young men.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny broke in, “You see, Vee—”</p>

<p class="pindent">But she put out her hand to stop him. “Wait! I want to
know what you mean!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I mean that this picture is part of the propaganda to get
us into a war with Russia, and a woman that lends herself to
such work is a disgrace to her sex.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Vee glared, and fury leaped into her face. “You bitch!”
she cried, and her hand shot out, and smack! she landed a blow
across Rachel’s cheek.</p>

<p class="pindent">For one horrible moment Bunny stood numb; he saw the
red start to Rachel’s face, and the tears start to her eyes; then
he sprang between them, and caught Vee’s hand to stop another
blow. “No, Vee, no!” A burly policeman completed the job
of blocking the way between the two antagonists, and Rachel
faded back into the crowd—something it was easy enough to
do, since everybody was pushing to the front. In the confusion
Bunny became aware of one hideous thing—a young
man jabbing at them and demanding, “What is it? What is
the matter? What happened, Miss Tracy? What was the
trouble, officer?” Bunny whispered into Vee’s ear, “Quick!
It’s a reporter!” He grasped her arm, and they fled through
the crowd.</p>

<h3>XV</h3>

<p class="pindent">Sitting in their car, with Bunny driving, Vee whispered,
“Who is that woman?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Her family are Jewish clothing workers. Her father’s the
man who got arrested—don’t you remember I told you?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh! That girl!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes. You see, you stepped on her class-consciousness.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Vee’s teeth were clenched. “Oh, the odious creature!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But Vee! Don’t forget you asked her what she thought.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, so insolent! Outrageous!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But dear, you take the liberty of saying what you think.
Don’t you grant her the same right?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Bunny! You are going to defend her!” And before he
could reply, she cried, in a voice of fury, “I hate those people,
I hate them! They’re nasty, they’re low, they’re jealous—they
haven’t an idea but to take away things from people who’ve
slaved to earn them.”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a long silence. Bunny drove; and when Vee
spoke again, it was to ask, “Where are you going?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Don’t forget the Schmolsky’s supper-party.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No, I won’t go to any supper-party, it would choke me.
Take me home—right away.”</p>

<p class="pindent">He obeyed; and when she was in the bungalow, she fled to
her room. He followed, and found the ermine cloak on the
floor, and Vee in a heap on the bed, without regard to the
costliest of embroidered silk gowns. She was convulsed with
sobbing, and he made out the words, “It’s going to ruin us!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Suddenly she sat up, blinded by her tears, and stretched out
her arms. “Oh, Bunny, Bunny, don’t let’s have our love killed!
Don’t let’s quarrel like all the others! Bunny, I don’t care about
those people, they can say anything they please to me, I’ll never
mind again! I’ll apologize to that girl, I’ll let her walk on me,
I’ll do anything you say! But oh, please don’t let’s stop loving
each other!”</p>

<p class="pindent">It was the first time he had ever seen Vee break down;
and of course it always produces a great impression upon the
protective male. He took her in his arms, tears and all, without
regard to the costliest of broadcloth evening suits. Their love
flamed up, and their troubles were melted in the fire, and they
swore that nothing, nothing should ever, ever tear them apart.</p>

<p class="pindent">Long afterwards, as they lay in each other’s arms, Vee
whispered, “Bunny, that girl is in love with you!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, absurd, Vee!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Why do you say so?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“She’s never given the least sign of such a thing.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“How would you know a sign?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But dear—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Of course she’s in love with you! How could anybody
fail to be in love with you, Bunny?”</p>

<p class="pindent">It was not worth while to try to argue. It appeared to be a
peculiarity of women, they were always sure that all other
women were in love with their man. When he had told Vee
about Henrietta Ashleigh, she had been sure that Henrietta
was desperately enamored, and that only her pride of caste had
kept her from trying to hold him. Likewise, when he told her
about Ruth, she was sure this poor country lass was pining her
heart out. That was the reason she was so indifferent to the
charms of oil workers, and not because she was wrapped up in
Paul. Sisters didn’t make so much fuss over brothers—no,
that was rubbish! Bunny remembered that Bertie said this
same thing; and strangely enough, Eunice Hoyt had said it
also—it had been one reason why she hated to have him go up
to Paradise. Bunny decided that it was better not to tell women
about one another; and especially not to introduce them, if it
could possibly be avoided!</p>

<p class="pindent">Morning came, and the newspapers were outside the door
of their room. Sitting up in bed in silken garments they
devoured—no, not the elaborate accounts of the world premiere
with details of the gowns worn by the women—that would
come later. First, their eyes leaped to the headline:</p>

<p class="line" style="text-align:center;margin-top:1em;margin-bottom:1em;">STAR SLAPS RIVAL IN LOBBY</p>

<p class="pindent">There it was! The reporter, having been unable to get the
real story, had made the inevitable romantic assumption.
Another triangle of the screen world! He had written a highly
playful article about the world-famous star, emerging in the
hour of her glory upon the arm of the young oil prince—about
whom so many interesting rumors were being circulated. Seeing
him leave her side and join some other woman, the star had
rushed over in a fit of jealous fury and smacked the other
woman in the face. There was an interview with Officer Tony
Reber of the Angel City police department, who had stepped
between the infuriated combatants. The star had called her
rival an awful name, which the officer’s modesty would not
permit him to repeat. “But I’ll say this,” he told the world,
“She certainly packs an awful punch, that lady. If I was to
hit anybody as hard as that I would sure get canned.”</p>

<h3>XVI</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny met the other combatant on the campus that same
day, and her face was pale and her dark eyes sombre. “Mr.
Ross,” she began, quickly, “I want to tell you I’m ashamed
for what I said.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You don’t have to be ashamed,” he replied. “It was true.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I know, but I had no right to say it to a friend of yours,
and after all you have done for me. It was just that I was so
wrought up over that picture.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I understand,” Bunny said. “Miss Tracy wishes me to
tell you she is truly sorry for what she did.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I know, you’d make her sorry. But I don’t care about
that—we Jews have been struck many times, and we workers
also, and there’ll be more of it before the class war is over. The
real harm is one she can never atone for—that hideous picture
that’s going out to poison the people’s minds—millions upon
millions of them. For that she can never apologize.”</p>

<p class="pindent">It was an aspect of the matter that had somehow fallen into
the background of Bunny’s consciousness during all the excitement.
“I’ve nothing good to say about the picture,” he replied,
“but I think you must make allowances for Miss Tracy. She
doesn’t know as much about Russia as you and I.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You mean she doesn’t know there were hideous cruelties
in old Russia—that the Tsardom was another word for terror?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, but then—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“She doesn’t know that the men she portrays as criminals
have most of them been in the dungeons of the Tsar for the
sake of their faith?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“She may not know that, Miss Menzies. It’s hard to realize
how ignorant people can be, when they read nothing but American
newspapers and magazines.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, Mr. Ross, you know that I’m not a Bolshevik; but
we have to defend the workers of Russia from world reaction.
That picture is a part of the white terror, and the people that
made it knew exactly what they were doing—just as much as
when they beat my brother over the head and started to deport
my father.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes,” said Bunny, “but you must understand, an actress
does not write the story, and she’s not always consulted about
the parts she plays.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Ah, Mr. Ross!” Rachel’s face wore a pitying smile. “She
would tell you that, and you’re so anxious to believe the best
about people! Well, I’m going to tell you what I think, and
maybe you won’t ever speak to me again. A woman who makes
a picture like that is nothing but a prostitute, and the fact that
she’s highly paid makes her all the more loathsome.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, Miss Menzies!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I know, it sounds cruel. But that’s a murder picture, and
that woman knew it perfectly well. They paid her money and
jewels and fur cloaks and silk lingerie, and her face on the
billboards and in all the newspapers; and she took the price—as
she’s done many times before. I don’t know one thing about
her private life, Mr. Ross, but I’ll wager that if you investigate,
you’ll find she’s sold herself, body as well as mind, all the way
from the bottom up to the pedestal she’s on now!”</p>

<p class="pindent">And so Bunny decided that he had better postpone for a
while the plan he had had in mind, of having Vee Tracy and
Rachel Menzies meet and understand each other!</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XV<br /> <span class="sub-head">THE VACATION</span></h1></div>

<h3>I</h3>

<p class="pindent">All this summer and fall, Dad and Mr. Roscoe had been
carrying a heavy burden—they were helping to make over the
thinking of the American people. A presidential campaign was
under way; and the oil men, having made so bold as to select
the candidate, now had to finish the job by persuading the
voters that he was a great and noble-minded statesman. Also
they had to pay a part of the expense, which would come to
fifty million dollars, so Bunny learned from the conversations
at Paradise and at the Monastery. This was several times as
much as would get recorded, since the money went through
local and unofficial agencies. It came from the big protected
interests, the corporations, the banks—everyone that had anything
to get out of the government, or could be squeezed by
politicians; the process was known as “frying out the fat.”
The oil men, having grabbed the big prize, were naturally a
shining mark for all campaign committees, county, state and
national. Dad and Mr. Roscoe received visits from Jake Coffey,
and from the bosses of the state machine, and listened to hair-raising
stories about the dangers of the situation.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was necessary to persuade the American people that the
Democratic administration for the past eight years had been
wasteful and corrupt, ignorant and fatuous—and that was easy
enough. But also it was necessary to persuade them that an
administration by Senator Harding was likely to be better—and
that was not so easy. Naturally, the chairmen of campaign
committees wanted to make it appear as difficult as possible, for
the more money that passed through their hands, the larger
the amount that would stick. As the campaign drew to its close,
Bunny had the satisfaction of hearing his father swearing
outrageously, and wishing he had taken his son’s advice and
left the destinies of his country to the soap manufacturer who
had put up the millions for General Wood!</p>

<p class="pindent">The Senator from Ohio was a large and stately and solemn-faced
person, and conducted what was called by the newspapers
a “front-porch campaign.” That is to say, he did not put himself
out to travel on trains and meet people, but received deputations
of the Hay and Feed Dealers of Duluth, or the Morticians
of Ossawotomie. They would sit in camp-chairs upon his lawn,
and the statesman would appear and read an imposing discourse,
which had been written by a secretary of Vernon
Roscoe’s selection, and given out to all the press associations
the day before, so that it could be distributed over the wires
and published simultaneously on fifty million front pages.
That is a colossal propaganda machine, and the men who run
it have to lose a lot of sleep. But the majestic candidate lost
no sleep, he was always fresh and serene and impassive; he
had been that way throughout his career, for the able business
men who groomed him and paid his way had never failed to
tell him what to do.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny now dwelt upon an Olympian height, looking down
as a god upon the affairs of pitiful mortals. Dad and Mr.
Roscoe let him hear everything—being sure that common sense
would win in the end, and he would accept their point of view.
They had a philosophy which protected them like a suit of
chain-mail against all hesitations and doubts. The affairs of
the country had to be run by the men who had the money and
brains and experience; and since the mass of the people had not
sense enough to grant the power freely, the mass of the people
had to be bamboozled. “Slogans” must be invented, and hammered
into their heads, by millions, yes, billions of repetitions.
It was an art, and experts knew how to do it, and you paid
them—but by Jees, the price made you sweat blood!</p>

<p class="pindent">The tremendous campaign came to an end, and it was
revealed that 16,140,585 Americans had been successfully bamboozled.
Senator Harding had seven million more votes than
the Democratic candidate, the greatest plurality ever polled in
American history. So there were shouting mobs on the streets,
and in the expensive restaurants and clubs where the rich celebrated,
everybody got hilariously drunk. Yes, even Vernon
Roscoe got drunk, because Annabelle was too drunk to stop
him; Vee Tracy defied her doctor, and Dad forgot his resolutions,
and even Bunny drank enough to make him fear for his
idealism. Man is a gregarious animal, and it is hard not to do
what everybody you know is doing!</p>

<h3>II</h3>

<p class="pindent">Christmas had come, and the quail were calling from the
hills at Paradise. There were not so many on the tract, but
there was plenty of adjacent land over which an oil prince and
his royal sire were welcome to shoot. And once you were out
of sight of the derricks, and out of smell of the refinery, it was
the same beautiful country, with the same clear sky and golden
sunsets, and you could get the poisons of bootleg liquor out of
your blood, and the embarrassing memories out of your soul.
Tramping these rocky hills, drawing this magical air into
your lungs, it was impossible to think that men would not some
day learn to be happy!</p>

<p class="pindent">This visit corresponded with a great historic event, which
put Paradise upon the map of California. Eli Watkins, prophet
of the Lord, had completed the payments for the land upon
which his tabernacle in Angel City was to stand, and he celebrated
this event by coming back to the scenes of his boyhood,
the little frame temple where the Third Revelation had been
handed down to mankind, and there holding a novel and interesting
performance of his own invention, known as a “Bible
Marathon.” You see, Eli had read in the papers about Marathon
races, and though he didn’t know what the word meant,
it was romantic-sounding, and he had a fondness for strange
words. So the disciples of the First Apostolic Church of Paradise
announced that a “Bible Marathon” consisted in reading
the Lord’s Holy Word straight through without a single pause;
they would be told off in relays, and day and night there would
be a little group in the church, and one voice after another
would take up the sacred task, regardless of oil wells “on the
pump” just outside the door.</p>

<p class="pindent">This was Big Magic. Not only did it thrill the believers,
and bring swarms of people to town, but it caught the fancy
of the newspapers, and they rushed reporters to write up the
event. Many new miracles were wrought, and many crutches
hung up; and in the midst of the excitement the Lord vouchsafed
a fresh sign of His mercy—Eli, preaching to the throngs
outside, announced in the Lord’s name that if the reading were
completed, Divine Omnipotence would cause the rest of the
money to be offered, and the Angel City tabernacle would be
erected within a year. After that, of course, nothing could
stop the “Marathon,” and the epoch-making feat was accomplished
in the time of four days, five hours, seventeen minutes,
and forty-two and three-quarter seconds—glory hallelujah,
praise the Lord!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny saw the shouting thousands with their heads bared,
their faces uplifted and a searchlight playing upon them; for
Eli had money now, and used it for spectacular effects. His
“silver band” was mounted upon a platform with electric lights
shining upon the instruments; and the prophet would exhort,
and then wave his hand, and the musicians would blare forth
an old gospel tune, and the crowd would burst into a mighty
chorus, and sway and stamp, their souls transported to glory,
the tears running down their cheeks.</p>

<p class="pindent">There were many wives of oil workers among the audience,
and these would plead and pray, and persuade their husbands
to attend. There is not much for a man to do out in a lonely
place like Paradise; a third-rate movie was the only form of
amusement—and here were the bright lights and the silver
trumpets and the heavenly raptures, all free—and with a
gambler’s chance of heaven thrown in! No wonder many of
the men “fell for it”; and Paul and his little bunch of rebels
insisted that the employers had hired Eli to come there at this
critical time, while the struggle to save the union was impending.
Bunny would have thought the idea exaggerated—but
then he remembered that five hundred dollars his father had
given to Eli! Also, he remembered a remark of Vernon Roscoe
at the Monastery—“They can have their pie in the sky, so long
as they let me have the oil.” Annabelle had given a frightened
exclamation, “Hush, Verne! What a horrid thing to say!”
For Annabelle knew that the heavenly powers are jealous, and
liable to cruel whims.</p>

<p class="pindent">The “wobblies” also were trying to stir the revival spirit in
their members, and use the power of song. But feeble indeed
was the singing in the “jungles,” compared with the mighty
blast of Eli’s silver trumpets, and the hosannas of his hosts.
The operators were not subsidizing the “wobblies,” you bet!
They had sent their sheriff, and a score of deputies, carrying
shot-guns loaded with buckshot, and raided the camping place of
the rebels, and loaded eleven of them into a motor-truck and
locked them up in the county jail. There they were now, and
Bunny had to hear the tragic tale of Eddie Piatt, one of Paul’s
friends, who had gone down to San Elido to find out what the
bail was, and had been locked up on suspicion of being a member
of the outlaw organization. He wasn’t, but how could he
prove it?</p>

<p class="pindent">Ruth, who told Bunny about it, wanted to know if Dad
wouldn’t put up the money to bail him out. Did Bunny remember
him, a dark-haired young fellow, very quiet, determined-looking?
Yes, Bunny remembered him. Well, he was as
trust-worthy as a Jewish garment worker, and the food they
gave you in that terrible place was full of worms, and the boys
hadn’t even a blanket to cover them. It was planned to railroad
them all to San Quentin, and Paul knew one of the “politicals”
who had just come out of there, and oh, the most horrible
stories—the tears came into Ruth’s eyes as she told how they
put the men to work in the jute-mill, and the brown stuff filled
their lungs, and presently they were coughing, it was the same
as a death-sentence. When they could not stand the labor, they
were beaten and thrown into the “hole”—and think of fellows
that you knew and cared for having to go through such things!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny knew the sheriff of San Elido County, and also the
district attorney, and knew that Dad had named these officials,
and could give them orders. But would Dad butt in on their
efforts to protect the oil companies? Would he go against the
wishes of all the other directors, executives and superintendents
of Ross Consolidated? No, assuredly he would not! All that
Bunny could do was to give Ruth a couple of hundred dollars,
with which to get food for the prisoners. He went back to
take up his work at the university; and inside himself there
was a “hole,” and his conscience would drag him to it, protesting
and resisting in vain, and throw him in, and shut a steel
door behind him with a terrifying clang. Yes, even when
Bunny was up in the snow-white room with the ivy vines
wreathing the window, even while he held in his arms the
eager body of his beloved—even then the prison door would
clang, and he would be in a tank of the county jail with the
“class-war prisoners”!</p>

<h3>III</h3>

<p class="pindent">Under the arrangements which had kept peace in the oil
industry during the war, a government “oil board” would listen
to grievances of the workers, and decide what was fair. But
now the war was fading in men’s memories, and the operators
were restive under this “outside” control. Was it not the
fundamental right of every American to run his own business
in his own way? Was it not obvious that war-time wages had
been high, and that “deflation” was desirable? Here and there
some operator would refuse to obey the orders of the “oil
board”; there would be long arguments, and resorts to the
courts, and meantime the workers would be protesting, and
threatening, and everyone could see that a crisis was at hand.</p>

<p class="pindent">In the old days, J. Arnold Ross had been one of the little
fellows, and all that Bunny could do was to await events. But
now he dwelt among the Olympians, and saw the fates in the
making. The Petroleum Operators’ Federation, by its executive
committee, of which Vernon Roscoe was a member, came to a
decision to brush the Federal Oil Board aside, ignore the unions,
and announce a new schedule of wages for the industry. A
copy of this schedule was in Dad’s hands, and it averaged about
10 percent under the present scale.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was going to mean a bitter struggle, and Bunny was so
much concerned that, without saying anything to his father,
he made an appeal to Mr. Roscoe. This being a business matter,
the proprieties suggested a visit to the office, so Bunny called
up the secretary and asked for an appointment in the regular
way.</p>

<p class="pindent">The great man sat at his flat mahogany desk, as clear of
papers as the prevailing superstition required. It appeared as
if a captain of industry had not a thing to do but grin at a
college boy, and gossip about the boy’s mistress and his own.
But then Bunny remarked, “Mr. Roscoe, I came to see you
here because I want to talk to you about the new wage-scale.”
And in a flash the smile went off the magnate’s face, and it
seemed as if even the fat went off his jaws; if you have thought
of him as a mixture of geniality and buffoonery, this is the time
for you to set yourself straight, along with Bunny, and all other
rebels against the American system.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny started to tell about the way the men felt, and the
trouble that was brewing; but Mr. Roscoe stopped him.
“Listen here, Jim Junior, and save a lot of breath. I know
everything the men are saying, and everything that Bolshevik
bunch up there is teaching them. I get a confidential report
every week. I know about your friend, Tom Axton, and your
Paul Watkins, and your Eddie Piatt, and your Bud Stoner
and your Jick Duggan—I could tell you all you know, and a
lot that would surprise you.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny was taken aback, as the other had intended. “Jim
Junior,” he continued, “you’re a bright boy, and you’ll get over
this nonsense, and I want to help you over it—I might save
you a lot of suffering, and also your father, that’s the salt of
the earth. I’ve been in this world thirty or forty years longer
than you, and I’ve learned a lot that you don’t know, but some
day you will. Your father and the rest of us that are running
the oil industry, we got here because we know how, and that’s
a real thing, by Jees, and not just a lot of words. But some
other fellers want to kick us out, and think all they got to do is
to make speeches to oil workers and set them to raising hell—but
let me tell you, kiddo, it’s going to take a lot more than
that!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, Mr. Roscoe, but that’s not the point—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Pardon me, but it is. Let’s cut out the hokum—just say
to yourself that I’ve been sitting in at the arguments of that
Bolshevik bunch of yours. Do they mean to take the industry
away from me and your old man, or don’t they?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, they may think that ultimately—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, exactly. And so far as I’m concerned, the time to
stop the ultimately is now. And I tell you that if any sons-of-bitches
imagine they’re going to live off my wages while they’re
getting ready to rob me, they’re mistaken; and if they find
themselves in the jute-mill at San Quentin, they’re not going
to get my money to bail them out!”</p>

<p class="pindent">That was a centre shot, and Vernon Roscoe was looking
Bunny straight in the eye. “Jim, Junior, I know all the fine
idealistic phrases them fellers use on you. It’s all lovely and
sweet and for the good of humanity—but they know that’s all
bait for suckers, and if you could hear them laughing at you
behind your back, you’d realize how you’re being used. What
I tell you is, you better get on your own side of the fence
before the shooting begins.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Is there going to be shooting, Mr. Roscoe?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s up to your Bolshevik friends. We’ve got what we
want, and they’re going to take it away from us.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“We needed the oil workers during the war, Mr. Roscoe,
and we made them promises—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Pardon me, kiddo—we didn’t make any promises at all!
A god-damn long-faced snivelling college professor made them
for us, and we’re done with that bunk for good! We’ve got a
business man for president, and we’re going to run this country
on business lines. And let me tell you for one, I’m god-damn
sick of having to buy labor leaders, and I can think of cheaper
ways to manage it.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny was startled. “Is that really true, Mr. Roscoe?
Have you been able to buy the oil workers’ officials?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Verne hitched himself a few inches across the desk, and
stuck a large finger at Bunny’s face. “Kiddo,” he said, “get
this straight: I can buy any officials, just the same as I can buy
any politicians, or anybody else that a bunch of boobs can elect
to office. And I know what you’re thinking—here’s an old
cow-puncher, without any fine ideals, and he’s got a barrel o’
money and thinks he can do anything he pleases with it. But
that ain’t the point, my boy—it’s because I had the brains to
make the money, and I got the brains to use it. Money ain’t
power till it’s used, and the reason I can buy power is because
men know I can use it—or else, by Jees, they wouldn’t sell it
to me. You get that?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, but what are you going to do with the power, Mr.
Roscoe?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’m going to find oil and bring it to the top of the ground
and refine it and sell it to whoever’s got the price. So long as
the world needs oil, that’s my job; and when they can get along
without oil, I’ll do something else. And if anybody wants a
share in that job, let him do like I done, get out and sweat, and
work, and play the game.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But Mr. Roscoe, that’s hardly practical advice for all the
workers. Everybody can’t be an operator.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No, kiddo, you bet your boots they can’t—only them that’s
got the brains. The rest have to work; and if they work for
me, they’ll get fair wages, and the money will be there every
Saturday night for them, no matter how much worrying and
planning I got to do. But when some feller comes along with
the gift of the gab, and sticks himself in between me and my
men, and says I can’t deal with them except by paying him a
rake-off, why then I say, ‘The jute-mill for him!’ ”</p>

<h3>IV</h3>

<p class="pindent">The thing that Bunny carried away from this interview
was Vernon Roscoe’s final appeal. “Can’t you see, boy, that
your father’s a sick man? You’re not going to have him with
you many years more, and some day when it’s too late you’re
going to wake up and realize what you done to him. That old
man ain’t had a thought in the world but to make things easier
for you; you can say he shouldn’t if you want to, but all the
same, that’s what he lived for. And now—now you’re spittin’
on his life! Yes, just that, and you might as well face it.
Everything he’s done has been no good, it’s all crooked and
dirty, and the only people with any ideals or any rights on their
side are a bunch of ne’er-do-wells that hate him because he’s
made good and they never will. And if you think the old man
don’t feel that, if you don’t know it’s eating his heart out—well,
you take it from me, and get your eyes open before it’s too
late. If you got to despise your father’s money, for Christ’s
sake wait till he’s dead, and the money’s your own.”</p>

<p class="pindent">So when Bunny went out from the office, he was not thinking
about the troubles of the oil workers. Was it true that
Dad’s health was so bad? And wasn’t there some way he could
be got to stop working so hard? Was it necessary for him to
be on hand and see every new well that Ross Consolidated
brought in, whether it was at Lobos River or Paradise or
Beach City? And what was going to happen to Dad when this
labor struggle actually came to a head?</p>

<p class="pindent">Early in the spring the union leaders held a conference,
and served notice on the oil board that the defiance of government
authority by the operators was beyond endurance; either
the board must assert its authority, or else the workers would
take matters into their own hands. The board did nothing;
and when the union officials addressed letters to the operators’
committee, the letters were ignored. A strike was inevitable;
and the longer it was postponed, the worse for the men.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then a peculiar thing happened. Vee Tracy came to Bunny;
she had just completed another picture—no propaganda this
time, no, she had laid down the law to Schmolsky, she would
never again have anything to do with Russia, or with strikes,
or anything that might wound the sensibilities of her oil prince.
This time the billboards announced Viola Tracy in “An Eight
Reel Comedy of College Capers, entitled ‘Come-hither Eyes.’ ”
Vee was glorious as the flirt of the campus, breaking hearts
of football stars by the eleven at a time, and incidentally foiling
the plot of a band of bookmakers, who had bet a million dollars
on the outcome of the big game, and sought to paralyze the
team by kidnapping its mascot and darling. Bunny having no
sympathy with either bookmakers or kidnappers, it had been
all right for him to watch this picture in the making, and supply
local color out of his experience with college capers.</p>

<p class="pindent">The “world premiere” of “Come-hither Eyes” was to take
place in New York, and the star had to attend. “Bunny,” she
said, “why not come with me, and have a little fun?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Now Bunny had never been east, and the idea was tempting.
He had two weeks’ Easter vacation, and if he missed a
bit of college, it could be made up. He said he would think it
over; and later in the day—this was at the Monastery—Annabelle
opened up on him, “Why don’t you go with Vee, and take
Dad along? The change would be the very thing for him.”</p>

<p class="pindent">He studied her ingenuous countenance, and a grin came
over his own. “What’s this, Annabelle—you and Verne trying
to get us out of the way of the strike?”</p>

<p class="pindent">She answered, “If your friends really care for you, they’ll
wish you to be happy.” And when he said something about it’s
being cowardly to run away, she made a striking reply. “We’re
going to have roast spring lamb for dinner, but you didn’t consider
it necessary to visit the slaughter-house.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Annabelle,” he replied, “you are a social philosopher.”
And she told him that people went to universities to learn long
names for plain common sense!</p>

<p class="pindent">Evidently the plot was deeply laid; for when Bunny got
back home, there was Dad, inquiring, “Did Verne say anything
about what he wants me to do?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No, Dad, what’s that?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“There’s a conference in New York that somebody’s got to
attend, and he wanted to know if I could get away. I was
wondering if it would break you up at the university if you
were to take a bit of vacation.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny debated with himself. What could be accomplished
by staying? In the first strike, he had managed to keep the
workers in their homes, but he couldn’t do even that much
now, for Verne would be in charge, and would not budge an
inch. Annabelle’s simile of the spring lamb appeared to fit
exactly the position of the oil workers’ union. The job of
slaughtering might take weeks, or even months, but it would be
done—and all that Bunny could do would be to torment his
poor father.</p>

<p class="pindent">And then Bertie was called into the conspiracy. Bertie
wanted him to go. She was to visit the fashionable Woodbridge
Riley’s, and after that to be on Thelma Norman’s yacht, and
she didn’t want her brother getting mixed up in an oil strike
and perhaps making another stink in the newspapers! Wouldn’t
he think about Dad for once, and get the old man to take a
rest? Bunny was tired of arguing, and said, all right.</p>

<h3>V</h3>

<p class="pindent">The proposed trip brought up a curious problem. How
did one travel with one’s mistress, in this “land of the pilgrim’s
pride?” Bunny remembered vaguely having heard of people
being put out of hotels, because of the lack of marriage certificates.
Would he and Vee have to meet clandestinely? He
asked her about it, assuming that her experience would cover
the question; and it did. On the trains one took a compartment,
and no questions were asked. As for hotels, you went
to the most fashionable, and let them know who you were,
and they made no objection to putting you in adjoining suites,
with a connecting door. Look at Verne and Annabelle, said
Vee; when it suited their convenience they stayed quite openly
at the most high-toned of Angel City’s hotels, and there was
never a peep from either the management or the newspapers.
It had happened more than once that Mrs. Roscoe had been
stopping at the same hotel, and the papers would report her
doings on the society page, and Annabelle’s on the dramatic
page, so there was never any clash.</p>

<p class="pindent">In truth the land of the pilgrim’s pride no longer existed;
in its place was the land of the millionaire’s glory. When a
moving picture star went east, with or without a paramour,
she always left by daylight, and her publicity man saw to it
that the newspapers published the time and place. There
would be shouting thousands, and policemen to hold them back,
and cameras clicking, and armfuls of flowers to let everybody
on the train know who was who. There would be crowds at
every station, calling for a glimpse of their darling; and if she
had an oil prince travelling in the same compartment, that was
not a scandal, it was a romance.</p>

<p class="pindent">And when they got to New York, there was another crowd,
conjured into being by the efficient publicity machine of
Schmolsky-Superba. At the hotel there were people waiting,
and more armfuls of flowers, and a dozen reporters demanding
interviews. And with all that free advertising for the hotel,
was any officious clerk or house detective going to concern himself
with the question of whether or not the connecting door
between two suites was kept locked? And with a personage
of such magnificent authority as J. Arnold Ross travelling
along, and beaming his approval on the situation? Dad’s face
was as good as a dozen marriage certificates at any hotel in
the land!</p>

<p class="pindent">For the old man this journey was just peaches and cream
all the way; a vicarious jag, with no “hang-over” the next
morning. He insisted upon paying all the bills; and he had his
secretary along, so everything just happened by magic—train
accommodations, hotel suites, taxicabs, flowers, candy, theatre
tickets—you had only to hint a wish, and the thing was there.
What more could there be to add to mortal bliss? Only that
Vee would have liked to eat a square meal now and then; and
to have spent the morning in bed, instead of having to keep an
appointment to “reduce” at a gymnasium!</p>

<p class="pindent">They saw the world premiere of “Come-hither Eyes.” Possibly
you have never been to college in America, and do not
understand our lively ways of speech; so let it be explained
that sometimes the eyes of “co-eds” have been observed to
possess, whether from natural endowment or by practice
acquired, a certain quality suggestive to the male creature of
an impulse to proximity. A delicious title, you see; and a
delicious picture, transporting tired and bored millions into that
very same world of glorious money-spending to which Vee and
Bunny had been lifted up. The mechanic who had been screwing
up nut number 847 in an automobile factory all day, the
housewife who had been washing baby-diapers and buying
shoddy goods in a five and ten-cent store—these were placed
in the same position as Dad, enjoying a vicarious jag with no
hang-over the next morning!</p>

<p class="pindent">The scenes at the New York premiere were the same as in
Angel City; the crowds as great, and the cheering as enthusiastic.
And Vee and Bunny, sitting up in bed in their silken
garments, while black-clad robots silently and mechanically
served breakfast on silver trays—Vee and Bunny read the
accounts of their triumph, and who had attended and what they
had worn. And then, turning over the paper, Bunny read a
dispatch from Angel City—ten thousand oil workers had
walked out on strike, and the industry was tied up tight. The
operators announced that they were no longer willing to recognize
the oil board, and issued a new wage-scale that was to be
taken or left. Trouble was feared, added the newspapers,
because it was known that radical agitators had for some time
been active among the men.</p>

<h3>VI</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny was on a holiday, and must enjoy himself; if he
failed to do so, the enjoyment of his two companions would
be marred. He must smile and escort them to a theatre, and
afterwards send Dad home in a taxi, and go with Vee to a
supper-party with some of the screen people, and gossip about
their productions and their profits, and see them drink too
much, and know that there would be an hour’s talk about prohibition
and bootleggers, starting as soon as he and Vee refused
to drink. Were they “on the wagon”? Or were they afraid
of this liquor? This was something special—the original Koski
stuff, or whatever it might be in New York.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then in the morning the pair would go to the “gym,” and
practice stunts together, making themselves a quite competent
pair of gymnasts—Vee said that if ever Dad went broke, and
she got “kleig eyes” and had to quit the movies, they could
earn several hundred a week on the “big time circuit.” They
would have lunch, and then maybe there would be a matinee,
or somebody calling, or reporters or special writers; or Vee
would go shopping, and absolutely insist upon having her darling
Bunny along, because he had such exquisite taste, and why did
she dress but to please him? Bunny met other rich young men
in his position, and learned that such remarks were preliminary
to the man’s ordering the bill sent to him. But there was
nothing of the “gold-digger” about Vee—when she gave the
invitation, she paid.</p>

<p class="pindent">What she wanted was her Bunny-rabbit. She adored him,
and wanted to be with him every moment, and to show him off
to all the world, including the newspapers. They had been
together long enough for Bunny to know her thoroughly, and
to realize the drawbacks as well as the advantages of the
alliance. That she was sensual did not trouble him, for he was
young, and his ardors matched hers. The arts that he had
learned from Eunice Hoyt were combined with those Vee had
learned from many lovers, and they were dizzy with delight;
the impulse that drew them together was impossible to resist.</p>

<p class="pindent">But intellectually they were far from being mated. Vee
would listen to anything he wanted to talk about, but how little
she really cared about serious things would be comically revealed
by her sudden shifting of the conversation. She had her own
life, one of speed and excitement and show. She might jeer at
the movie world and its works, but nevertheless, she was of
that world, and applause and attention were the breath she
lived by. She was always on the stage, playing a part—the
world’s professional darling; always bright, always fresh,
young, beautiful, sprightly. Such a thing as thoughtfulness
was suspect, a cloak for dangerous enemies stealing into your
mind. “What’s the matter, Bunny-rabbit? I believe you’re
thinking about that horrid strike!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Sitting down and reading a book was a thing quite unknown
to this world’s darling. A newspaper, yes, of course, or a
magazine—one had them lying about, and a man would pick
them up and glance over something, but always ready to stop
to look at a new dress or listen to a bit of gossip. But to become
absorbed in reading and not want to be interrupted—well, it
didn’t seem quite polite, did it? As for spending a whole afternoon
or evening reading a book—Vee had simply never heard
of such a thing. She did not put it into words, but Bunny
could understand that a book was cheap; anybody could get
one and sit off in a corner, but few could have a box at the
theatre, presented by the management, and sit there, almost as
important as the play.</p>

<p class="pindent">One of the young fellows who had taught at Dan Irving’s
labor college was in New York, and Bunny met him, and they
talked about what was going on in the labor movement all over
the world. Bunny would have liked to meet him again, and to
go to meetings—there were so many exciting things in this
great city, headquarters of the radical movement as of everything
else. But Vee found out about this, and set out to save
him—just as if he had wanted to smoke opium or drink
absinthe! She would make engagements for him, and claim
his time, and question him, with an anxious, “Where is my
wandering boy tonight?” sort of an air. Bunny knew, of
course, that she was doing it for his soul’s salvation, and doubtless
at Dad’s direct request; but all the same it was a bore.</p>

<p class="pindent">He had one other acquaintance, to whom Vee made no
objection—his mother. She had married again some time ago,
and her husband was rich, and she had a lovely home, so she
had written. Bunny went to see her, and had to make an
extreme effort not to reveal his consternation at her appearance.
A dreadful example of what happened when a woman yielded
to her craving for a square meal! Mamma had filled out till she
was round as a ball of butter, and so soft that it was hard to
keep together on a hot day like this. “Fair, fat, and forty”
runs the saying; the surgeons add, “and a bad gall bladder,”
but Bunny didn’t know that, and neither did Mamma. She was
dressed like a queen in his honor, and had a poodle dog—selected,
as Vee would have said, to match her figure. Her
husband was a dealer in jewelry, and apparently he used his
wife instead of a safe. She insisted on giving Bunny a diamond
ring, and when he told her about the strike, she gave him
another to be sold for the strikers’ relief fund. Oil men were
cruel, said Mamma—she knew!</p>

<h3>VII</h3>

<p class="pindent">Dad was attending to the business which had brought him
east. He didn’t say much about it, and that was unusual, so
Bunny knew it was something off color. Presently he wormed
it out of his father, it had to do with those naval reserve leases
they were planning to get. President Harding had been inaugurated,
and had made Barney Brockway his attorney-general,
according to schedule, and appointed Vernon Roscoe’s man as
secretary of the interior. This was Senator Crisby, an old
party hack who had served Roscoe and O’Reilly when they were
occupied in turning out one Mexican administration and putting
in another; they had held over the Mexicans’ heads the threat
of American intervention, and this Crisby, as senator from
Texas, had clamored for war and almost got it. He couldn’t
let women alone, Dad said, and so he was always busted, and
ready for any new job that came along.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now he was to give the oil men a whole string of valuable
leases for practically nothing; but he had to have more money,
there were a lot of fellows that had to have a lot more money.
That was the trouble in dealing with politicians; you bought
them before election, and then you had to buy them again after
election, they wouldn’t “stay put,” like business men. What
Dad had come on here for was to consult a lawyer that Verne
considered the greatest in the country, and fix up a little corporation
for the purpose of buying government officials legally.
Of course Dad didn’t put it in those crude words, but that was
what it amounted to, Bunny insisted, and how could it be done?
Dad answered that a real good lawyer could do anything. This
was going to be a Canadian corporation, so that it wouldn’t
have to obey United States laws; and the men that took stock in
it were to get their leases in the end. But the trouble was,
nobody could be sure just what the leases would be worth, and
Pete O’Reilly and Fred Orpan were trying to make Dad and
Verne put up too big a share of the money. Verne was mad
and said they could go to hell, and he wanted Dad to settle
down and wait a while in New York, and bluff them out.
Could Bunny make up his mind to skip the rest of his college
term, and maybe do some studying with a tutor, and pass his
examinations in the fall?</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny said he didn’t care about college, but this worried
him—what was Dad getting in for with this Canadian corporation?
Dad insisted it was perfectly all right, he had the best
lawyer in the country. But Bunny said, “Are you sure Verne
isn’t putting something over on you?” Dad was shocked at
that, how could Bunny have such an idea, why Verne was the
best friend Dad had ever had in business, he was straight as
they made them. “Yes, Dad, but they don’t make them so very
straight in the oil-game. And why doesn’t Verne do his own
bribing? Why didn’t he come to New York?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But son, Verne has got to handle the strike—you know he
couldn’t get away now. He’s taken that off my shoulders, and
you ought to be glad.” Dad added a naive remark, the oil men
wouldn’t let him deal with labor, he was “too soft.” The phrase
sounded familiar.</p>

<p class="pindent">It turned out that Vee and Dad had been putting their heads
together. Vee wanted a vacation, also; they would go up to
Canada to complete Dad’s business, and then they would find
a camp, and instead of tiresome “gym” work, she and Bunny
would tramp the forests and swim in a beautiful lake. So Dad
sent a telegram to President Alonzo T. Cowper, D.D., Ph.D.,
LL.D., explaining that urgent business compelled his son to
remain in the east, and could it be arranged that Bunny might
return and take his examinations in the fall? Dr. Cowper
wired that the authorities would be very pleased indeed to
grant this favor.</p>

<p class="pindent">And then, the very morning after it was all settled, a telegram
came for Bunny, and he opened it and read the signature.
Ruth Watkins. With swiftly flying eyes he took in the sense
of it—Paul and Eddie Piatt and Bud Stoner and Jick Duggan
and four others of their group had been arrested, charged with
“suspicion of criminal syndicalism,” and were lodged in the
San Elido county jail with ten thousand dollars bail demanded
for Paul and seventy-five hundred for each of the others.
“They have done nothing and everybody knows it,” declared
the telegram, “merely scheme to lock them up during strike.
Jail is horrible place Paul’s health will not stand it implore you
for sake our old friendship obtain needed bail for all surely no
need assure you no money will be lost on our boys.”</p>

<h3>VIII</h3>

<p class="pindent">At first Bunny had a cruel suspicion—that his father had
known of this arrest, or at any rate that it was pending, before
his latest effort to keep Bunny away from California. But he
realized, it was enough to believe that Vernon Roscoe, intending
to break up the “nest of Bolshevism” in the Rascum cabin,
had made plans to get both Dad and Bunny away and keep
them away. Anyhow, the scheme would not work, for Bunny
was not going to permit his friend to be treated in that crude
fashion!</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad happened to be out, and Bunny showed the telegram
to Vee, and talked it out with her. She wanted to know what
he meant to do, and he answered that Dad would have to put
up the bail for Paul, at least.</p>

<p class="pindent">“But Bunny, you know he can’t do that—he wouldn’t cross
Verne in regard to the strike.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“He’s simply; got to do it, Vee! I’d be a dog to let a man
like Paul be locked up in that filthy hole.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But suppose Dad won’t, Bunny?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Then I’ve got to go back, that’s all there is to it.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What could you do when you got there?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’ll hunt around till I find somebody that’s got a sense of
decency and also a little cash.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“The combination isn’t so easy to find, dear—I know,
because I’ve tried it. And it’s going to make Dad dreadfullly
unhappy, to say nothing of spoiling our vacation. I have just
learned of the loveliest place—a camp that Schmolsky bought
up in Ontario, and he’s never been there, he’s too busy. And,
oh, Bunny, I thought we were going to have such a marvelous
time.”</p>

<p class="pindent">She put her arms about him, but he hardly knew she was
there, so cruelly was his spirit wrung by the vision of Paul in
jail. And he, Bunny, running away from the trouble, loafing
about and pretending it was a “vacation”! He that thought he
understood the social problem, and had an ideal, at least a
glimpse of what was kind and fair! He broke loose from
Vee’s arms and began to pace the floor, storming half at himself
for a renegade and half at the dirty crooks that ran the
government of San Elido county, and stole the funds that were
supposed to keep the jail clean and feed the prisoners. Bunny
was twisting his hands together in his misery, and Vee watched
him, startled; it was a new aspect of her Bunny-rabbit, that
she had thought so sweet and soft and warm!</p>

<p class="pindent">“Listen, dear!” she broke in, suddenly. “Stop a minute
and talk to me quietly. You know, I don’t know much about
these things.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What is it?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“How can you be sure that Paul hasn’t broken any law?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Because I know him. I know all his ideas. I’ve talked the
thing out with him from A to Z—all about this strike, and
how it’s to be handled, the importance of getting the men to
stand as a unit, how everything else must be subordinated to
that. That’s what he’s been doing, and that’s why Verne has
thrown him into jail.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You’re quite sure Verne has done it?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Of course—he and the rest of the operators’ committee.
What are those officials in San Elido, but office-boys for the
oil men? Before Verne came in there, Dad ran that county;
I’ve seen him pay the money with my own eyes, and more times
than one.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“And you don’t think they may have evidence that Paul
has been conniving at violence?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I don’t know what evidence they’ve got. Verne as good
as told me he had spies on that bunch, and I don’t know what
those spies may have planted—and neither does Verne know,
for that matter. That’s one of the damnable things about it.
Another is—you see that charge, ‘suspicion of criminal syndicalism’!
What they call ‘criminal syndicalism’ means that you
advocate overthrowing the government, or changing the social
system by force; but you notice they don’t arrest you for that—they
arrest you for ‘suspicion’ of it! In other words, you advocate
some idea that some ignorant cop or some crook in office
chooses to think may be dangerous, and then they throw you
into jail, and there you stay—the courts are crowded, and they
can keep you a year without a trial or any chance at all.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, surely they can’t do that, Bunny!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“They’re doing it right along. I know fellows it’s been done
to. They put the bail high on purpose, so that workingmen
can’t get it. And they think they’re going to do it to Paul Watkins,
the best boy-friend I ever had, the straightest fellow I
ever knew—yes, by God, and he went to Siberia and served
in that war, and came out sick—that boy was as tough as a
hickory nut before that, a country fellow, simple and straight,
and with no vices. And this is the reward he gets for his services
to his country—by Jesus, I’d like to see them get me to
fight for a country like that!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny had to dash a tear out of his eyes, and he began
to pace the floor again, and stumbled against a chair. Vee put
her arms about him and whispered, “Listen, dear, I know some
people that have got money, and I may be able to help you.
Leave it to me for a few hours, and don’t say anything to Dad
about it—what’s the use of worrying him to no purpose? If
I can arrange it, he’ll be able to tell Verne that he knew nothing
about it, and that’ll be so much better all round.”</p>

<p class="pindent">She went off, and a couple of hours later came back. Bunny
was to wire Ruth that neither he nor his father could do anything,
but a friend had taken an interest in the case, and the
money had been deposited with the American Bonding Company,
and their office in Angel City would obtain Paul’s release.
Bunny said, “How did you do it?” and she answered, “The
less you know about it the better. I know somebody that owns
some real estate in Angel City, and has a salary coming to them,
and employers that are anxious to keep them happy and contented.”
Bunny said it must have cost a good deal, and he
ought to pay it back, and Vee said, “Yes, it cost a pile, and
you’re going to pay in love and affection, and you can start
right now.” She flew to his arms, and he covered her with
kisses, and it was like an orchestra that went surging up in their
hearts. It is an extremely unsettling thing to have a whole
orchestra inside you!</p>

<h3>IX</h3>

<p class="pindent">Well, Paul got out, and Bunny was supposed to be satisfied.
To be sure, seven other fellows were in, and Bunny knew them
all; but it would have cost fifty-two thousand five hundred
dollars to release them, and that would certainly be carrying
idealism to unreasonable extremes. So Bunny let Vee carry
him and Dad off to that “camp” on a lake with a long Indian
name, and there they swam, and canoed, and fished, and
tramped the forests, and took pictures of moose in the water;
they had Indian guides, and everything romantic—and at the
same time hot and cold water in their bed-rooms, and steam-heat
if they wanted it; all the comforts of Broadway and
Forty-second Street.</p>

<p class="pindent">Here, if ever, they had a chance to get enough of each other;
there were no distractions, no social duties, no visitors dropping
in, no dressing to be done; they were together all day and all
night. What Bunny found was that they were perfectly happy
so long as they were doing physical things: canoe trips to other
places, new fishing stunts, hunting with the camera, shooting
rapids, learning to make camp, to start a fire like the Indians—anything
it might be. But they must be playing all the time,
otherwise a great gulf opened between them. If Bunny wanted
to read, what was Vee to do?</p>

<p class="pindent">Once a day a little steamer came the length of the lake and
put off supplies and a packet of mail. There were papers from
Angel City, and also, once a week, the strike bulletin of the
oil workers, which Bunny had very unwisely subscribed for.
What was the use of running three thousand miles away from
trouble, and then having it sent to you in a mail sack? Reading
of the scenes that he knew so well—the meetings, the relief
work, the raising of funds, the struggles with the guards, the
arrests, the sufferings of the men in jail, the beating up of
strike pickets, the insolence of the sheriff and other officials, the
dishonesty of the newspapers—it was exactly the same as if
Bunny were in Paradise. Paul was one of the executive committee,
Paul had become Tom Axton’s right-hand man, and
his speeches were quoted, and his experiences in the San Elido
county jail—when Bunny had finished that little paper, he was
so shaken he was not the same all day. Vee found out about
it, of course, and began trying to persuade him to stop reading
it. Had he not done his share by giving the strikers back their
leader? And had he not promised to repay her, his darling
Vee-Vee, with love and affection for a whole summer?</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny wrestled it out with his own soul, in such free
moments as he could get. He told himself that it was to help
his father—a more respectable excuse than entertaining a mistress!
But did his father have a right to expect so much? Did
any one person have a right to replace all the rest of humanity?
If it was the duty of the young to sacrifice themselves for the
old, how could there ever be any progress in the world? As
time passed, and the struggle in the oil fields grew more tense,
the agony of the workers more evident, Bunny came to the
clear decision that his flight had been cowardly.</p>

<p class="pindent">He tried to explain his point of view to Vee, but only to
run into a stone wall. It was not a subject for reasoning, it
was a matter of instinct with her. She believed in her money;
she had starved for it, sold herself, body and mind, for it, and
she meant to hang onto it. Bunny’s so-called “radical movement”
meant to her that others wanted to take it away. He
discovered a strange, hard streak in her; she would spend
money lavishly, for silks and furs and jewels, for motor-cars
and parties—but that was all professional, it was part of her
advertising bill. But, on the other hand, where no display was
involved, where the public did not enter—there she hated to
spend money; he overheard her wrangling with a washer-woman
over the amount to be charged for the ironing of her
lingerie, and those filmy night-dresses in which she seduced his
soul.</p>

<p class="pindent">No, he could never make a “radical” out of this darling of
the world; he would have to make up his mind to that. She
would listen to him, because she loved him, even the sound of
his voice talking nonsense; she would make a feeble pretense
at agreeing, but all the time it was as if he had the measles
and she waiting for him to get cured; as if he were drunk and
she trying to get him “on the wagon.” She had apologized to
Rachel, and had got Paul out of jail, but merely to please him,
and in reality she hated both these people. Still more did she
hate Ruth, with a cold, implacable hatred—an intriguing minx,
pretending to be a simple country maiden in order to win an
oil prince! No women were simple, if you believed Vee, and
damn few of them were maidens.</p>

<p class="pindent">Nor would Ruth ever stop being a nuisance. In the midst
of one of their happiest times, she sent Bunny another telegram—her
brother was in jail again, this time it was contempt
of court. Bunny considered it necessary to paddle down to
the nearest telegraph office and wire Mr. Dolliver, the lawyer,
to investigate and report. The answer came that nothing could
be done—Paul and others of the strike leaders had disregarded
an injunction forbidding them to do this and that, and there
was no bail and no appeal, neither habeas corpusses nor counter-injunctions,
and Paul would have to serve his three months’
sentence.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny was bitter and rebellious against judges who issued
injunctions, and Vee was afraid to speak, because it seemed
obvious to her that somebody had to control strikers. Of course
after that there was a shadow over their holiday—Bunny brooding
upon his friend shut up in the county jail. He sent Ruth
five hundred dollars, to take care of all the prisoners; and in
course of time got a letter, saying that the prisoners had refused
the money, and Ruth had turned it over to the strike relief. It
was a terrible thing to see children without enough to eat; terrible
also that men who had power should use it to starve children!
Thus the “simple” Ruth—not meaning any hint at Dad!</p>

<h3>X</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny had to study for his fall examinations, and that
looked like a problem, for what was Vee going to do? But fate
provided a solution—Dad telegraphed to Harvard University,
which sent up a young instructor to do tutoring, and he was
the solution. He was tall, and had the loveliest fair blue eyes,
and a softly curling golden moustache, and soft golden fuzz
all over him like a baby; he wore gold nose-glasses, and had
a quiet voice and oh, so much culture—one of those master
minds which can tutor you in anything if you give them a
week’s start!</p>

<p class="pindent">Coming as he did from an old Philadelphia family, and having
been trained in the haughtiest centre of intellectual snobbery,
you might have thought he would look down upon an
ex-mule-driver and his son, to say nothing of an actress who
had been raised in a patent medicine vender’s wagon, and had
never read a whole book in her life. But as a matter of fact,
young Mr. Appleton Laurence just simply collapsed in the presence
of the situation he found at this Ontario camp; it was the
most romantic and thrilling thing that a young instructor had
encountered since Harvard began. As for the patent medicine
vender’s daughter, he could not take his eyes off her, and when
she came near, the tutoring business was scattered as by a
hurricane.</p>

<p class="pindent">Vee of course had put her sparkling black eyes to work at
once; all those stunts which Tommy Paley had taught her she
now tried out on a new victim, and Bunny, as audience, was
in position to study them objectively. Vee would wait till Mr.
Laurence had set Bunny his morning’s work, and then she and
the tutor would go for a walk in the woods, and Bunny would
sit with one-half his mind on his books, while the other half
wondered what was happening, and what he had reason to
expect from one who had had so many lovers.</p>

<p class="pindent">She did not leave him long in doubt. “Bunny-rabbit,” she
said, “you aren’t going to be worried about my Appie, are
you?”—for the hurricane that struck the tutoring business had
swept all dignity away, and Mr. Appleton Laurence was
“Appie,” except when he was “Applesauce.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I won’t worry unless you tell me to,” Bunny answered.</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s a dear! You must understand, I’m an actress,
that’s the way I earn my living, and I simply have to know
all about love, and how can I learn if I don’t practice?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, that’s all right, dear—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Some of the men they give you in Hollywood are such
dubs, it makes you sick, you would as soon be in the arms of
a clothing dummy. So I have to tell them how to act, and I
have to know how a real gentleman behaves—you know what
I mean, the highbrows and snobs. Oh, Bunny, it’s the cutest
thing you ever saw, he falls down on his knees, and the tears
come into his eyes, and you know, he can recite all the poets
by heart; I never saw anything like it; you’d think he was an
old Shakespearean actor. And it’s really a great opportunity
for me, to cultivate my taste and get refined.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, yes, dear, but isn’t it a little hard on him?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, rubbish, it won’t hurt him, he’ll go off and put it
into sonnets—he’s doing it already, and maybe he’ll get to be
famous, and it’d be great publicity! Don’t you bother about
him, Bunny, and don’t bother about me; there’s nobody in the
world for me but my Bunny-rabbit—all the rest is just a joke.”
And she put her arms about him. “I know what it is to be
jealous, dear, and I wouldn’t cause you that unhappiness for
anything in the world. If you really mind, you can send old
Applesauce packing, and I won’t be cross.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny laughed. “I can’t do that, I’ve got to be tutored.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Vee told Dad about it, too—lest he should be having any
vicarious pangs. When Dad heard about the falling on the
knees and the tears, he chuckled. Bunny would get the contents
of the tutor’s mind, and Vee would get the contents of
his heart, and they would send him home like a squeezed
orange. It appealed to Dad as good business. Back in Paradise,
you remember, he was hiring a chemical wizard, paying
him six thousand a year, and making millions out of him!</p>

<h3>XI</h3>

<p class="pindent">There came another development, to protect Vee from the
possibility of boredom. Schmolsky sent her up the “continuity”
of the new picture upon which she was to start work in the
fall. And then suddenly it was revealed that the world’s darling
knew how to read! For a whole hour she sat buried in it,
and then she leaped up, ready to start rehearsing—and all the
hurricanes that ever swept the province of Ontario were as
nothing to the one that came now. Clear the way for “The
Princess of Patchouli”!</p>

<p class="pindent">It was a popular musical comedy which was to be made into
a moving picture. “Patchouli” was one of the little Balkan
kingdoms, though it looked and acted very much like Vienna
of the Strauss waltzes. A young American engineer came in
to build a railroad, and found himself mistaken for a conspirator,
and presently he was rescuing the lovely princess from
a revolutionary band—no Bolsheviks, these were aristocratic
array conspirators, so Bunny wouldn’t have his feelings hurt,
would he? Of course the hero carried her off, married her for
love only, and then got the kingdom thrown in—the bankers
who were financing the railroad bought it for him.</p>

<p class="pindent">So here was Vee, being a princess all over the place. It
was amazing to watch her work—Bunny suddenly came to
realize that her success hadn’t been all money and sex, after all.
She pounced onto the role like a tiger-cat, and when she got
going the rest of the world ceased to exist—except to the extent
that she needed it for a foil. “Now, Dad, you’re the king; you
walk in here—no, no, for God’s sake, kings don’t walk so fast!
And I have to fall at your feet, and plead for his life, ‘Oh,
mercy sire, and so-and-so, and so-and-so, and so-and-so!’ ”</p>

<p class="pindent">It is one of the peculiarities of motion picture acting that it
doesn’t matter what you say, so long as you are saying something;
so Vee would weep, “And so-and-so,” and she would
croon “And so-and-so” in passionate love-accents to either
Bunny or Apple, and she would shriek “And so-and-so” in
deadly terror to an executioner with uplifted axe. And if in
the course of the scene the other person didn’t do it right, then
scolding and commands would serve equally well for a love-song,
“Hold it, now, you idiot, I adore you, darling”—or maybe
it might be, “Take your hands off me, foul beast—don’t let
go, you goose, grab! That’s better, you don’t have to be polite
when you’re a murderer.”</p>

<p class="pindent">If Bunny had wanted to rehearse tempestouous emotions,
and shriek and scream and tear his hair, he would have sought
refuge in the woods, where only the chipmunks could have
heard him. But Vee was utterly indifferent to the existence of
other humans. That is something one learns on “the lot”; for
there will be camera-men and scene-shifters, and property-boys,
and carpenters working on the next set, and some visitors that
have managed to break in despite the strictest regulations—and
you just go on with your work. The first time the executioner
lifted his axe and Vee started screaming, the Indian guides
came running in alarm; but she hardly stopped even for a
laugh, she went on with the scene, while they stood staring
with mouths wide open. She and her two lovers would come
in from swimming, and suddenly she would call for a rehearsal
of some royal pageantry—she could be a princess just as well
in a scanty bathing suit, with a carpet of pine-needles under
her bare feet.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mr. Appleton Laurence had never met any princesses, but
he had read a great deal of history and poetry, and so he was
an authority, and must criticise her way of walking, her gestures,
her attitudes, her reaction to the love-advances of a handsome
young American engineer. “Just imagine you’re in love
with me yourself, Appie,” she would say—and so his emotions
became sublimated into art, and he could pour out his soul to
her, right before Bunny and Dad and Dad’s secretary and the
Indians! “You’re much better at it than Bunny,” she would
declare. “I believe he’s got used to me, it’s as bad as if we
were married.”</p>

<p class="pindent">So the time passed pleasantly. Until at last Vee had got to
feel perfectly at home in her Appie’s conception of royalty;
she no longer had to ask questions, nor to stop and think, but
knew instantly what to do—and forever after, in all her
entrances to and exits from Hollywood society, she would be
a little of a Harvard instructor’s Princess of Patchouli. She was
impatient now, wanting to see the sets, and to hear Tommy
Paley call, “Camera!” Bunny also was loaded up with answers
to all possible exam questions, and ready to get back and unload
them onto his professors. Dad had run down to Toronto, and
signed the last of the papers for his Canadian corporation;
he had telegrams from Verne almost every day—the strikers,
having held out for nearly four months, had learned their lesson,
and the Federal Oil Board had written them a letter, advising
them to go back to work as individuals, and promising there
would be no discrimination against union men.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then one day the steamer brought a telegram signed Annabelle,
addressed to Bunny, and reading, “Spring lamb for dinner
come on home.” He explained what that meant, the strike was
over; and so the occupants of the camp packed up, and Mr.
Appleton Laurence went back to his fair Harvard, with woe
in his heart and a packet of immortal sonnets in his suit-case,
while Vee Tracy and Dad and Bunny and the secretary made
themselves luxurious in compartments on a Canadian-Pacific
train bound West.</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XVI<br /> <span class="sub-head">THE KILLING</span></h1></div>

<h3>I</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny passed his examinations, and was duly established
as a “grave old senior” in Southern Pacific University. And
then he hunted up his friends—and such a load of troubles as
fell onto his shoulders! Literally everybody had troubles!
Rachel and Jacob Menzies had come back from their summer’s
fruit-picking, to find their two younger brothers, the “left wingers,”
in the county jail! The police had raided a Communist
meeting and arrested all the speakers, and the organizers, and
the literature sellers, and all who had red badges in their buttonholes.
They had raided the Communist headquarters—determined,
so the newspapers announced, to root every Moscow
agent out of the city. They had sorted the prisoners, and fined
a few, and were holding the rest, including the Menzies boys,
under that convenient universal charge, “suspicion of criminal
syndicalism.”</p>

<p class="pindent">These foolish boys had made their own trouble, said Rachel;
but still it was an outrage to arrest people for their beliefs;
and it was tormenting to think of your own flesh and blood
shut up in those horrible cages. Bunny asked the bail—it was
two thousand dollars per brother. He began explaining his
troubles with his father, and his own impotence; and Rachel
said of course, she understood, they couldn’t expect him to bail
out the whole radical movement. And yet that did not entirely
restore his peace of mind.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then Harry Seager, whose business college was on the
rocks. The boycott had wrecked it, and Harry was trying to
sell the debris. He was going to buy him a walnut ranch; it
would be harder to boycott walnuts, you couldn’t tell the “red”
ones from the “white”!</p>

<p class="pindent">And then Dan Irving, whose labor college was in almost
as bad a way. The orgy of arrests had frightened the old line
labor leaders completely off. The college was still going, but
it was in debt, and the head of it hadn’t had any salary for several
months. Bunny wrote a check for two hundred dollars,
and went away debating the question that never would be settled—to
what extent had he a right to plunder his father for
the benefit of his father’s enemies?</p>

<p class="pindent">From Dan Irving he learned that Paul had got out of jail,
and was in Angel City, together with Ruth. It was a dirty deal
the oil workers had got, said Dan; the operators had made one
last use of the oil board, to trick the men into a complete surrender.
They had promised the oil board there would be no
discrimination against union men, but they had never had the
least intention of keeping this promise. They had kept all the
strike-breakers at work, and taken back just enough of the
strikers to make up their needs. All the active union fellows
were begging jobs, and the oil industry was a slave-yard of
the “open shop.”</p>

<h3>II</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny went at once to call on Paul and Ruth at the address
which Dan Irving gave him. It was a mean and dingy lodging-house,
in a part of the city given up to Mexicans and Chinese.
An old woman sent him up to the second floor, and told him
which door to knock on, but he got no response. He came
back later, and found that Ruth had just got in. They were
crowded into one little room, with a gas plate and a sink in
an unventilated alcove, and another alcove with a curtain before
it, and a cot on which Paul slept. Ruth was ashamed to have
Bunny see them in such a place, but explained that it wouldn’t
be long, just till Paul got a job; he was out looking for one
now. She herself had got work in a department-store, and as
soon as they could get ahead, she was going to study trained
nursing. She looked pale and worn, but smiled bravely; she
didn’t really mind anything, so long as Paul was out of jail.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny wanted to know all the news, and plied Ruth with
questions. Just what had Paul done to get arrested? The first
time, Ruth said, the sheriff had raided the Rascum cabin, with
a lot of rough, hateful men, who had torn everything to pieces
and carried off all of Paul’s books and papers—they had them
still. They had done the same thing to all the other fellows
that used to come to the cabin—they were going to prove them
“reds,” but what evidence they had or claimed to have was a
secret the sheriff or the district attorney or whoever it was was
keeping to himself. They had had a lot of spies on the bunch—one
fellow was known to be a spy, and two others had disappeared,
and would no doubt turn up as witnesses—but who
could tell what they would testify? All the other boys were
still locked up in those horrible tanks, so dark and dirty, and
nothing to do all day or night. The trial was set for next February,
and apparently they were to stay there meantime. Paul
was free, thanks to Bunny’s ten thousand dollars; Ruth could
never express her thanks—</p>

<p class="pindent">Never mind about that, Bunny said—what about the second
arrest? And Ruth told how Judge Delano had issued an
injunction forbidding anyone to interfere with Excelsior Pete
in the course of its business, the production and marketing of
oil. That meant that you mustn’t advocate or encourage the
strike; and of course Paul had done that, so the judge had sent
him to jail—that was all. Judges were getting so they did that
all the time, and what were union men going to do? It had been
a fearful ordeal for Paul, he was not very well, and of course
he was terribly bitter. He would never go back to Paradise
again, it wasn’t the same place at all. Ruth smiled a wan smile,
“They’ve cut down all those lovely trees that we planted,
Bunny. They needed the room for tanks.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny hauled out his check-book, and sought to salve his
conscience by making a present to his friends. But Ruth said
no, she was sure Paul wouldn’t let him do that. They were
going to get along all right. Paul was a good carpenter, and
sooner or later he would find some boss that didn’t mind his
having been in jail. Bunny argued, but Ruth was obdurate;
even though she were to take the check, Paul would send it
back.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny did not wait till Paul came home; he made some
excuse, and went away. He just did not have the nerve to sit
there, in his fashionable clothes which Vee had selected for
him in New York, and with his new sport-car waiting downstairs,
and see Paul come in, half sick, discouraged from seeking
work in vain, and with all the black memories of injustice
and betrayal in his soul. Bunny could make excuses, of course.
Paul did not know that he had been spending the summer at play
with the world’s darling, Paul would believe that he had gone
away on his father’s account. But nothing could change the
fact that it was on money wrung from the Paradise workers
that Bunny was living in luxury; nothing could change the fact
that it had been to increase the amount of this money, to
intensify the exploitation of the workers, that Paul had spent
three months in jail, and the other fellows were to spend nearly
a year in jail. So long as that was the truth, there was nothing
Bunny could do but just run away from Paul!</p>

<h3>III</h3>

<p class="pindent">Money! Money! Money! It was pouring in upon Dad and
Verne. Never had oil prices been so high, never had the flow
at Paradise been so rapid. Millions and millions—and they
were scheming to make it tens of millions. It was a game,
marvelous, irresistible; everybody was playing it—and why
could not Bunny be interested? Why did he have to go sneaking
around in the dressing-rooms and behind the grand-stands,
finding out dirty and disreputable facts about the players of this
game and their methods?</p>

<p class="pindent">It seemed as if the fates had it in for Bunny. Just as sure
as he made some pitiful effort to be like his father and his
father’s friends, some new development would come along and
knock him down! Here he had gone to a university, a solemnly
respectable university, trying to improve his mind and make a
gentleman of himself; he had turned over his young and eager
mind to the most orthodox and regular authorities—and surely
they would know how to make him good and honest and happy,
surely they would teach him wisdom, dignity, and honor! Such
things were being taught to all students in this great institution,
which had begun as a Methodist Sunday-school, and still
had more courses on the religion of Jesus Christ than on any
other subject whatever! Oh, surely yes!</p>

<p class="pindent">The university had grown great on the money of Pete
O’Reilly, the oil king; and Pete O’Reilly’s son was a graduate,
and the two of them, “Old Pete” and “Young Pete,” were the
gods of the campus. When they came to commencement, the
faculty bowed down before them, and in all the stories which
the university’s publicity man sent to the newspapers, the names
of Pete O’Reilly, father and son, never failed to be featured.
The son was the most active of the alumni, and their god; when
they had banquets, he was toasted and flattered and cheered;
he was the patron saint of all the teams, the bounteous friend
of all athletes. And of course, if you know anything about
American universities, you know that this is what counts in
the molding of the students’ minds; this is the thing they do
for themselves, and into which they put their hearts.</p>

<p class="pindent">At first it seemed all right. You knew that S. P. U. was
a glorious college, and had splendid teams, and won victories
that resounded up and down the coast. And presently there
was a stadium, and a vast business of athletics, that resulted in
infinite applause and free advertising for your alma mater. Of
this you were proud, the whole student body was made one by
it—the thing called “college spirit.” Bunny, a trackrunner,
had had his share of cheering; and here was a “game” he could
play with all his heart!</p>

<p class="pindent">But now he was a senior, and on the inside of things, just
as with the oil-game, and with strikes, and with political campaigns.
And what did he find? Why, simply that all the football
and track and other athletic glory that had come to Southern
Pacific had been stolen, and “Young Pete” O’Reilly was the
thief! The oil king’s son had put up a fund of fifty thousand
dollars every year, for the purpose of turning the game of college
athletics into a swindle! The fund was administered by
a secret committee of alumni and students, and used for the
purpose of going out into the market and buying athletes, to
come and enroll themselves under false pretenses and win victories
for S. P. U. Husky young truck-drivers and lumbermen
and ranch-hands and longshoremen, who could not speak correct
English, but could batter down “interference” and crash
through to a goal! And the pious Methodists who constituted
the faculty were conniving at the procedure, to the extent of
permitting these young huskies to pass farcical examinations—well
knowing that any professor who presumed to flunk a promising
quarterback would soon be looking for some other university
to presume in. Was not “Young Pete” showing what he
thought of professors, by paying a football coach three times
the salary of the best?</p>

<p class="pindent">And of course these hired athletes were hired to win, and
did not bother about the rules of the game; they slugged and
fouled, and the rival teams paid them back, and there was a
nasty mess, with charges and countercharges, bribery and
intimidation—all the atmosphere of a criminal trial. Along
with secret professionalism, came its accompaniments of the
underworld, bootleggers and bookmakers and prostitutes. Study
was a joke to hired gladiators, and quickly became a joke to
students who associated with them. The one purpose was to
win games, and the reward was two hundred thousand dollars
in gate receipts; and when it came to distributing this prize,
there were just as many kinds of graft as if it had been a
county government: students putting in bills for this and that,
students looking for easy jobs, students and alumni building
up a machine, and paying themselves and their henchmen with
contracts and favors. Such was the result of an oil king’s
resolve to manufacture culture wholesale, by executive order!</p>

<h3>IV</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny went to see the young lawyer whom the oil workers’
union had engaged to defend the eight “political prisoners.”
The union had since become practically extinct, and the young
lawyer had been wondering where he was going to get his pay.
When Bunny came to question him, it was a great relief—for
surely this young oil prince would put up something for the
defense of his friends! Or could it be that he was sent as an
emissary from the other side, to feel out the situation?</p>

<p class="pindent">Young Mr. Harrington talked freely about the case. The
thing which the state was doing to these eight men was without
precedent in our law, and if it could stand, it meant the end
of American justice. Every prisoner was supposed to know
the charges against him, the specific acts he was alleged to have
committed. But in all these “criminal syndicalism” cases, the
state simply alleged violation of the law in its vague general
terms, and that was all. How could you prepare a defense in
such a case? What witnesses would you summon—when you
didn’t know the time, or the place, or the particular things a
man was alleged to have done, or said, or written, or published?
You were taken into court blindfolded, bound and gagged. Yet,
so completely were the courts terrorized by the business crowd,
no judge would order the district attorney to make a detailed
statement of the charges!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny went away, and in his desperation played a dirty
trick on Vernon Roscoe—he went to see Annabelle Ames.
Annabelle was kind and gentle, and he would wring her soul,
and see if in that way he could not get under the hide of the
old petroleum pachyderm! He told her about these boys, what
they looked like, what they believed, what they were suffering
in the jail. Annabelle listened, and the tears came into her
eyes, and she said it was horrible that men could be so cruel.
What could she do? Bunny told her that the strike was over,
the spring lamb had been slaughtered and eaten, and Verne
ought to be willing to cry quits. It would be of no use for him
to plead that he couldn’t do anything, that the law must take
its course; that was all rubbish, because the district attorney
had the right to ask for the dismissal of the cases, and he would
surely do it if Verne said the word.</p>

<p class="pindent">Well, Bunny got under the hide of the old petroleum pachyderm!
The way Bunny heard about it, Dad came in in a terrible
state, Verne had jumped on him, Verne was mad as the
very devil, Bunny sneaking into his home and plotting against
his domestic peace! He wanted it understood, by Jees, if Dad
couldn’t control his son, Verne would. Bunny wanted to know
what Verne meant to do, spank him? Or have him locked up
with the others?</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny had made up his mind, and stood his ground—he had
a perfect right to talk to Annabelle, she was a grown woman,
and there was no way Verne could stop him. He was going to
do more talking before he got through—he was sorry enough
to make his father unhappy, but here was the fact, if that case
ever came to trial, he, Bunny Ross, was going to take the stand
as a witness for the eight defendants, and not merely a character
witness, but one with first-hand knowledge of the facts,
he had sat in the Rascum cabin night after night, and heard
them discuss the problems of the strike, and their own attitude
to it, and he could testify that every man of them had agreed
on workers’ solidarity as the way to victory, and acts of violence
as a trap the operators would try to lure them into. If
there was no other way to get money for the defense of these
boys, Bunny would sell the car that Dad had given him—“I
suppose Verne won’t have any right to keep me from walking
to the university!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Poor Dad, he couldn’t stand talk like that from his darling
son; he began to give way, and revealed that he and Verne
had discussed the possibility of a compromise with the rebels.
Would they agree to get out of the state, or at least to keep
their hands off the oil industry? And Bunny said, by God, if
Vernon Roscoe wanted to make any such proposition, he could
be his own messenger boy! Bunny knew what Paul’s answer
would be—Paul had a right to try to organize oil workers,
and he would never quit while he lived. Bunny was sure the
whole eight would respond with a unanimous shout, they would
rot in jail the rest of their lives before they would make such a
bargain!</p>

<p class="pindent">Then, having said that very magnificently, the young idealist
who was gradually and painfully evolving into a man of the
world, went on to point out that as a matter of fact none of
the eight would have much chance to bother Verne. His efficient
blacklist system would see to it that they didn’t get work in the
oil fields; and any organizing they could do would be of a pitiful
sort. On the other hand, Verne must realize that if he persisted
in trying to railroad these fellows to jail, there was going
to be a long trial, and a lot of publicity of a kind the operators
might find troublesome. The testimony would have to be
“framed”; and Bunny would do everything in his power to
expose it, and to see that the public got the facts. What if it
should occur to the defendants’ lawyer to subpoena Mr. Vernon
Roscoe and ask what he knew about the planting of spies on
the Paradise workers?</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, son!” cried Dad, “You wouldn’t do a dirty thing like
that!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny answered, “Of course I wouldn’t. I said the lawyer
might do it. Wouldn’t you, if you were in his place?” And
Dad, very uncomfortable, said to let the matter ride, and he
would see what he could do with Verne.</p>

<h3>V</h3>

<p class="pindent">One outcome of these negotiations, Dad appealed to Vee
Tracy: couldn’t she possibly do more to keep Bunny out of
the hands of these awful reds? Why, he wasn’t thinking about
a thing else! Vee said she would try, and she did, and it was
a further strain upon their love and affection. For Bunny was
beginning to know what he wanted now, and he didn’t want to
be kept from it.</p>

<p class="pindent">Vee was hard at work on “The Princess of Patchouli.” It
was a silly story, she would freely admit; yet her whole being
was concentrated upon making it real and vivid. If you asked
her why, the answer would be, it was her profession; which
meant that she was getting four thousand a week, with the
possibility of increasing it to five thousand a week if she “made
good.” But what did she want with the five thousand a week? To
buy more applause and attention, as a means of getting more
thousands for more weeks? It was a vicious circle—exactly
like Dad’s oil wells. The wobblies had a song about it in their
jungles: “We go to work to get the cash to buy the food to
get the strength to go to work to get the cash to buy the food
to get the strength to go to work—” and so on, as long as your
breath held out.</p>

<p class="pindent">Vee wanted to talk about the picture and the problems that
arose day by day, and the various personalities and their jealousies
and vanities, their loves and hates. Bunny, who loved
her, would pretend to be interested, because it would hurt her
if he wasn’t. And it was the same with the Hollywood parties;
once they had been new and startling, but now they all seemed
alike. Everybody was making a new picture, but it would always
be like the old pictures. Nobody did anything original, but
everybody followed fashions; the public’s taste ran to society
pictures, and nobody would look at a war picture—but presently
the public would want war pictures, and after that costume pictures,
and then sea pictures, and then back to society pictures.
Vee’s friends changed their bootleggers, but it was always the
same stuff they drank. Also they changed their lovers; a certain
man slept with a certain woman, and then presently it was a
different woman—but the more it changed, the more it was the
same thing.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny and Vee loved each other, just as passionately as
ever. At least, they told themselves it was as ever, but all the
while the subtle chemistry of change was at work. Men and
women are not bodies only, and cannot be satisfied with delights
of the body only. Men and women are minds, and have to
have harmony of ideas. Can they be bored with each other’s
ideas, and still be just as much in love? Men and women are
characters, and these characters lead to actions—and what if
they lead to different actions? What if the man wants to read
a book, while the woman wants to go to a dance?</p>

<p class="pindent">Vee had been so considerate in the matter of her adoring
“Applesauce,” so careful lest Bunny should be jealous; and now
Bunny made the irritating discovery that it was his turn to be
careful! Vee had two enemies among women—and Bunny
persisted in keeping them as his intimates. That Socialist girl
at the university—of course he had to see her there, but did
he have to make dates to go to Socialist meetings with her?
Vee was ready to believe that he wasn’t in love with a common
little sweatshop Jewess; but what if Vee wanted to be taken
to a “world premiere” on the evening of the Socialist lecture?</p>

<p class="pindent">And then—that Ruth Watkins! Of course Bunny wouldn’t
be in love with an ignorant country girl, without any education;
but all the same, she was setting her snares for him, and Vee
had seen enough of men to know that a woman can always get
what she wants, if she keeps after it. Bunny kept going to that
lodging-house room, and plotting and scheming with Paul to
worry his father, and make trouble with Verne and Annabelle,
so that pretty soon they wouldn’t welcome Bunny any more at
the Monastery, which was practically Vee’s country club, and
where you met the most important people. It wasn’t just the
social life, it was the business connections, that meant everything
in the career of an actress. In the screen world promotion
goes by favor, and Vee simply couldn’t afford to give up
her intimacy with Verne and Annabelle. She tried to convey
this tactfully to Bunny, but when he failed to heed it, she had
to keep insisting, until it began to sound like nagging. Bunny
remembered her playful remark to her Applesauce, “It’s as bad
as if we were married!”</p>

<h3>VI</h3>

<p class="pindent">Dad and Verne had a lot of negotiating to do with Pete
O’Reilly, concerning the new leases they were putting through,
and Dad was invited to spend a week-end at this famous man’s
country place. Bunny was included in the invitation, and Dad
said he ought to come; Dad was always nourishing the hope
that something in this “great” world that so impressed him
would impress his fastidious son. Besides, he added with a
grin, the O’Reillys had a marriageable daughter.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny had already met “Young Pete” at the university in
connection with athletic events. Bunny had been singled out
for attention, because he also was a scion of oil; some day he
and “Young Pete” would be running the government of the
United States, as their two fathers were running it now.
“Young Pete” was a perfectly colorless business man, of the
nationally advertised brand; but the father was the real thing—an
old Irishman who had wandered over the deserts leading
a burro loaded with a pick, a blanket, a sack of bacon and beans,
and a skin full of water. This had continued up to middle age—he
delighted to tell how, when he had come to Angel City to
print a prospectus about his find, the printshop would not trust
him for a thirteen-dollar job! Now, nobody could guess his
millions; but he was plain as an old shoe, a likeable old fellow
who wanted to sit in his shirt in hot weather, but was not
allowed to.</p>

<p class="pindent">The boss of the family was Mrs. Pete, who had risen from
a section foreman’s daughter to this high station in Southern
California society. She was large and decisive; when she went
into a department-store she did not fool with the clerks, but
strode at once to the floor-walker and announced, “I am Mrs.
Peter O’Reilly, and I wish to be waited on promptly.” The
functionary would hit the floor with his forehead, and tear
three clerks loose from their duties and set them rushing about
at the great lady’s behest.</p>

<p class="pindent">Mrs. Peter it was who had summoned the architects and
ordered the royal palace in a park, and set the high bronze
fence all about, and the bronze gates; she it was who had
caused the name of the owner of the estate to be graven on
the gates. She had negotiated for the yacht of a fallen
European monarch, and then torn it all out inside, and made it
over to be fit for an Irish-American oil prospector—finished in
Circassian walnut and blue satin, and with the owner’s name
in plain sight. Also there was a private car finished in Circassian
walnut and blue satin, and with the owner’s name on
a brass plate. It was as fine as a haberdashery shop.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now Mrs. Peter had Dad and Bunny to practice “society”
upon; to shake hands high up in the air, and remark the early
cold weather and the snow upon the mountains. And then to
introduce Patricia, and to watch while Patricia did the stunts
which her director had taught her, and which gave Bunny an
impulse to say “Camera!” Miss Patricia O’Reilly was tall like
her mother, and had a tendency to grow stout too early, so she
was taking reducing medicine, which was injuring her heart
and making her pale and aristocratic. She had learned every
motion and every formula so carefully that she was as interesting
as a large French doll, and her mother beamed upon the
young couple—a possible union between two great dynasties,
and there would be a wedding in Holy Name Church, and
fifty thousand people outside, and pictures on the front pages
of all the newspapers. Bunny’s thoughts went even further—the
“yellows” would interview Vee Tracy, and she would be
cold and haughty, and in secret she would weep, and then catch
a glimpse of her face in the mirror, and the thought would
come, “Hold it!”</p>

<p class="pindent">There were other guests, including Dr. Alonzo T. Cowper,
D.D., Ph.D., LL.D., than whom it was not possible to imagine
a human being radiating more cordiality. He was delighted
that Bunny had passed his examinations successfully, and
charmed to have been able to oblige his father, and again
delighted that Dad was pleased with his son’s progress. When
they were alone, he ventured some playful remark about
Bunny’s red measles, and was much distressed to learn
that the patient had not yet recovered; he took occasion to
question the young man—was it really true that the reds
were making such alarming progress in Angel City. Dr.
Cowper wanted to talk about these shocking doctrines, in
the same way that a small boy wants to read a naughty
book!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny was not called in to the conference between Old Pete
and his father, but on the way home Dad told him about it.
They were having the devil’s own time; buying a government
was not so simple a matter as they had thought. Everybody
had to have a “rake-off,” all the way down the line; by golly,
the very office boy that brought you a letter about the matter
expected a ten-dollar bill! Bunny took the occasion to plead,
why not get out of the thing, surely they had enough money!
But Dad said they were in too deep, the thing had cost him
personally nearly six hundred thousand dollars, and it was
real money, and it had hurt. No, they would go through
with it, and when they had got the leases, it would be all
hunkydory.</p>

<p class="pindent">Two troubles had arisen. The naval reserve lands had been
under the control of the navy department, and it had been necessary
to get them shifted to the control of Secretary Crisby.
There had been question whether this could be done by executive
decree, or did it require an act of Congress. The officials
had made a lot of delay, but of course it was just a hold-up;
they wanted more money for this one and that. Old Pete had
sent his son on to Washington to act as paymaster. The other
difficulty was that some little oil company had got onto the
Sunnyside tract—the one that Verne and Dad were to get—and
had started drilling under an old lease. They would have
to be ejected, and it must be done quietly, they must fix matters
up with the newspapers somehow. Verne wanted Dad to
go up there and look the ground over, and maybe he and Bunny
might make a trip of it. Sunnyside was going to be the world’s
wonder of an oil field—it would beat Paradise many times over,
and when they had got it safely tucked away, Dad would take
a good long rest.</p>

<h3>VII</h3>

<p class="pindent">There was a telephone call for Bunny—he was to call “long
distance” in a city a hundred miles up the state. When he did
so, there was a nurse in a hospital, with a message from Bertie;
she wanted him to come to her. She was not in any danger,
and there was no use worrying the family, therefore she wished
him to say nothing about the matter. Bunny of course jumped
into his car and made all haste. His sister had been visiting
the Normans, a long way from this hospital.</p>

<p class="pindent">When he got there, the attendants told him that Bertie had
had an operation for appendicitis, and was doing well. He
was taken up to her room, and there she lay, pale, and strange-looking,
because he had never seen her without her colors.
Everything about her was spotlessly clean, a lacy white nightgown,
and soft white pillows in which she lay sunken—nun-like,
and pathetic in her gladness to see him. “Gee whiz, Bertie!
How did this happen?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It came quite suddenly. It was pretty bad, but I’m all right
now. Everybody’s been so good to me.” There was a nurse in
the room, and Bertie waited until she had gone out and closed
the door. Then she fixed her tired eyes on her brother, and
said, “We call it appendicitis, because that’s the conventional
thing, and what you’ll have to tell Dad and Aunt Emma. But
you might as well know the truth—I was going to have a baby.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, my God!” Bunny stared at her, aghast.</p>

<p class="pindent">“You needn’t begin acting up—you’re no spring chicken,
Bunny.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Who is the man?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Now, don’t start any melodrama. You know it might happen
to anybody.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes—but who was it, Bertie?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I want you to get this straight at the beginning—it wasn’t
his fault. I did it on purpose.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny didn’t know what to make of that. “You might as
well tell me, Bertie.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, I want you to behave yourself. I’m my own boss,
and I knew what I was doing. I wouldn’t marry him now for
a million dollars—not for all his millions, because he’s a yellow
pup, and I despise him.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You mean Charlie Norman!”</p>

<p class="pindent">She nodded in assent; and as she saw Bunny’s hands
clench, she said, “You don’t have to do any heroics. There
can’t be a shot-gun wedding when the bride refuses to attend.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Tell me about it, Bertie.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, we were in love quite desperately for a while, and
I thought he was going to marry me. But then I saw he
wouldn’t lay off other women, and I thought it over, and I
decided, if I had a baby, he’d have to marry me, so I tried it.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Good God, Bertie!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You needn’t make faces. Thousands of women do it—it’s
one of our tricks. But Charlie’s a yellow cur. When I told
him about it, he behaved so disgustingly, I told him to go to
hell. I got the name of a doctor that would fix me up, and
Dad will have a thousand dollars to pay, and that’s all the
damage.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Bertie,” he whispered, “why in the world do you have to
do things like that?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Don’t worry, I’ll not do it again. I had to learn, like everybody
else.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But why did you have to do it once? Trying to trap a rich
man into marriage! Doesn’t Dad give you enough money?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s very easy for you to say, Bunny, you’re satisfied
to get off in a corner and read some old book. But I’m not
like that, I have to have a little life. Dad gives me pocket
money, but that’s not what I want. I want a career—something
of my own. And don’t start preaching at me, because
I’m weak as a kitten and can’t stand anything just now. I
wanted what every woman wants, a home of my own, and I
didn’t want a bungalow, I wanted a place I could invite people
to, and make some use of my talents as a hostess. Well, I fell
down, and now I want somebody to be kind to me for a few
minutes, if you’ve possibly got that in you.”</p>

<p class="pindent">It looked as if the tears were coming into her eyes, so
Bunny hastened to say, “All right, old girl, I’ll lay off. But
naturally I was taken aback.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You needn’t be. The doctor says it’s done a million times
a year in the United States. I amused myself figuring that
out—it’s about once every thirty seconds. Life is a messy business.
Let’s talk about something else!”</p>

<p class="pindent">It was a time for confidences, and she wanted to know
about him and Vee—was he going to marry her? He said he
didn’t know if she would have him. Bertie laughed—she would
have him all right, she was playing her cards cleverly. But
Bunny told how many times she got irritated at him, and why,
and that gave Bertie occasion for a discourse. She was the same
old Bertie; she might weaken for a few minutes, and ask him
to be kind, but she still believed in money, and the things money
bought. She discussed Vee from that point of view; it would
be more dignified, and safer in the long run, for him to marry
a lady, rather than an actress; but all the same, Vee had a lot
of sense, and he might do worse. To go and wreck their happiness
for the sake of his fool Bolshevik notions—that was just
sickening!</p>

<p class="pindent">Then she wanted to know about Dad’s affairs, and how that
deal in Washington was going; would they really get the leases?
And was it true that Dad had any real pull with the administration
in Washington? Bunny was sure he had; and Bertie
revealed what she had in mind. “I’ve been thinking it over—I’ve
had a lot of time to think, lying here. I believe that what
I’ll do is to go back to Eldon Burdick. He’s a good deal of
a dub, but you always know where to find him, and that seems
to me a virtue right now.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Would you tell him about this?” asked Bunny, wonderingly.</p>

<p class="pindent">“No, why should I? He’s made his mistakes, I guess, and
he doesn’t advertise them. He knows I’ve been living with
Charlie, but I think he’s still in love with me. What I have in
mind is that I could make a career for him; I’d get Dad or
Verne to pull some wires and get him a good diplomatic post.
I believe I’d like to live in Paris, you meet all the important
people there, and it’s very good form. We’re going to have to
take charge of Europe, Eldon says, and I think he’s the sort
of man they’ll need. How does that strike you?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, if it’s what you want, I’ve no doubt you can get it.
But it’ll be rather tough on Eldon to have me for a brother-in-law.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, you’re going to behave yourself,” said Bertie, easily.
“This is just a sort of children’s complaint that you’ll get over.”</p>

<h3>VIII</h3>

<p class="pindent">The navy department ousted the little company which had
started drilling on the Sunnyside naval reserve. It sent in a
bunch of marines to do it, and this unprecedented move
attracted a lot of attention, which worried Dad and Verne. The
latter had a man up there, to fix matters with the newspaper
correspondents; and “Young Pete” was in Washington, seeing
to things there. You began to notice in the newspapers items
to the effect that the navy department was greatly worried
because companies occupying lands adjoining the naval reserves
were drilling, and draining the navy’s oil; this would be a calamity,
and the authorities were of the opinion that in order to
avoid it the reserves should be turned over to the department of
the interior, which would lease them upon terms advantageous
to the government.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny didn’t need to ask his father about that propaganda;
he knew what it meant, and he waited, wondering—was it possible
to get away with anything so crude? Could anybody fail
to see that the government could have taken the adjoining
lands, under the same powers which had set aside the present
reserves? Or that the navy could have put down offset wells
on its own property, exactly as any oil man would have done?
But no, this administration was not thinking about the navy—it
was thinking about Dad and Verne! When the oil men had
bought the Republican convention, they had also got the
machinery of the party, and that included the press, which
now accepted meekly the “dope” sent out from Washington,
and commended the prompt measures of the administration to
protect the navy’s precious oil.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then a peculiar thing happened. Dan Irving called Bunny
on the phone, and made a date for lunch. The first thing he
said, “Well, the labor college is flooey—naa poo!” He went
on to declare, it was a waste of time to try to keep such an
enterprise alive, so long as the present labor leaders were in
power; they didn’t want the young workers to be educated—it
wouldn’t be so easy for the machine to control them. Last week
somebody had raided the college at night, and taken most of its
belongings, except the debts; Dan had decided to pay these
out of his savings and quit.</p>

<p class="pindent">“What are you going to do?” asked Bunny. And Dan
explained he had been sending in news to a little press service
which a bunch of radicals were maintaining in Chicago, and
he had got a lot of information from Washington that had
attracted attention. He had some friends there on the inside,
and the upshot of it was that Dan had been offered fifteen dollars
a week to go to the national capital as correspondent of
this press service. “I can exist on that, and it’s the best job
I can do.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny was enthusiastic. “Dan, that’s fine! There’s plenty
of rascals that need to be smoked out!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I know it; and that’s what I want to see you about. One
of the things I’ve got my eye on is these naval reserve oil
leases. They look mighty fishy to me. Unless I’m missing my
guess, the people behind it are Vernon Roscoe and Pete
O’Reilly, and there’s bound to be black wherever their hands
have touched.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I suppose so,” replied Bunny, trying to keep his voice from
going weak.</p>

<p class="pindent">“There’s talk in Washington that that’s how Crisby came
into the cabinet. The deal was fixed up before Harding got his
nomination. General Wood says the nomination was offered to
him if he’d make such a deal, and he turned it down.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Good Lord!” said Bunny.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Of course I don’t know yet, but I’m going to dig it out.
Then I remembered that Roscoe is an associate of your father’s,
and it occurred to me, it would be awkward as the devil if I
was to come on anything—well, you know what I mean,
Bunny—after your father was so kind to me, and you put up
money for the college—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Sure, I know,” said Bunny. “You don’t have to worry
about that, Dan. You go ahead and do your job, just as if
you’d never known us.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s fine of you. But listen—I was afraid maybe some
day there might be a misunderstanding, unless I got this clear,
that I never got any hint on this subject from you. My recollection
is positive, you’ve never mentioned it in my hearing. Is
that right?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’s absolutely right, Dan.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You’ve never discussed your father’s business with me at
all—except the strike; and you haven’t discussed Roscoe’s or
O’Reilly’s, either.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“That is true, Dan. There’ll never be any question about
that.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“There will be, Bunny, rest assured—if I should bust loose
in Washington, nothing would ever convince Roscoe and
O’Reilly that I hadn’t wormed it out of you. I’m afraid nothing
would convince your father, either. But I want to be sure that
your own mind is clear, I haven’t been dishonorable.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny gave him his hand on it; and not one of the veteran
poker-players who sat all night in the smoke-filled living-room
of the “ranch-house” at Paradise could have acted more perfectly
the part of impassivity. Bunny even made himself finish
lunch, and he wrote a check to cover part of the debt of the
labor college, and gave his friend a hearty farewell and best
wishes for his new job. Then he drove off in his car, and was
free to look as he felt, which was quite unhappy!</p>

<p class="pindent">He decided that it was his duty to tell his father about this
conversation. It couldn’t make any difference to Dan Irving’s
work, and it might yet be possible to keep Dad out of the mess.
But when the elder Ross got home that evening, Bunny had no
time to get in a word. “Well, son, we got those leases!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You don’t say, Dad!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“They’ve been approved, and Verne left for Washington
today. They’ll be signed next week, and you and me are going
to take a trip and have some fun!”</p>

<h3>IX</h3>

<p class="pindent">Joe and Ikey Menzies had been out of jail for a couple of
months, their comrades of the Workers’ party having scraped
together the bail. Now came their trial, with several other
members of the party. The state was undertaking to show that
this organization was nothing but the Communist party under
a camouflage; it was the “legal” part of the organization, but
the real direction was in the hands of an “underground” group,
which received funds and took orders from Moscow. It advocated
the forcible overthrow of the “capitalist state,” and the
setting up of a “dictatorship of the proletariat,” after the Russian
pattern. On the other hand, the indicted men claimed that
they had organized a legitimate working-class political party,
and their attitude to violence was purely defensive. They believed
the capitalists would never permit the power to be taken
from them peaceably; it was the capitalists who would overthrow
the constitution, and the workers would have to defend
themselves.</p>

<p class="pindent">The prisoners were all tried at once, and the procedure took
three weeks and was quite an education in contemporary problems—or
would have been, had the newspapers reported both
sides. To get the workers’ side, you had to sit in the court
room; and Bunny went whenever he could get loose from the
university. He was there when the prosecution sprung a “surprise”
witness, and it was a surprise to Bunny also—his boyhood
friend, Ben Skutt! Ben, it appeared, had grown a moustache
and taken a course in the Moscow dialect, and had turned
up as an oil worker out of a job, and been admitted to the
Workers’ party, and before long had got a job in the office.
Now he had harrowing stories to tell of the criminal things he
had heard said, and of efforts the party had made to incite the
oil workers to rise and destroy the wells. On the other hand,
so Bunny was told by Ikey Menzies, the Communists were
ready to swear that Ben Skutt had himself done all the proposing
of destruction—at the crisis of the strike he had spent his
time insisting that the only way to save the situation was to get
a bunch of real fighting men and burn up half a dozen oil fields.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny went home to his father. “Dad, just what was it
made you get rid of Ben Skutt?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Why, I found he’d been taking commissions from the
other feller. He’d been up to other rascalities, too.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Just what?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad laughed. “He had a scheme that was a wonder. You
know, down there at Prospect Hill, people were in a crazy
hurry to drill; the owner of the next lot was getting his well
down first, and draining all the oil away. Ben and another
feller would find a bunch of lot owners jist on the point of
making a good lease; and Ben would have his pal give him a
quit-claim deed to one of those lots. Ben would record the
deed, and of course, when the title company come to report
on the property, there was that cloud on the title. The owner
would come hustling after Ben Skutt in a panic, what the hell
was this? And Ben would look shocked, and tell how he had
bought the lot from some feller in good faith. Who was the
feller? Well, the feller had disappeared, and nobody could find
him. But there Ben had the lease tied up, and the drilling
couldn’t start. The lot owner would rage and swear—all the
lot owners in the lease was all tied up together, and nobody
could do anything with their property till that one lot had got
free. To go into court and clear the title would take six months
or so, and meantime the chance to lease would be gone; so the
owners would have to chip in and pay Ben five thousand or so—whatever
he claimed he had paid to the other man.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I should think that trick would have been tried a lot of
times,” remarked Bunny; and Dad answered, it would be tried
just long enough for the news to git round, and then some lot
owner would stick a gun under Ben’s nose, and settle it that
way. What had happened in his case was the usual thing, a
woman had got hold of him and plucked him clean, and that
was why he was doing spy work for the patriotic societies.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny knew that his father didn’t owe anything to this
slippery rascal, and wouldn’t mind his being exposed, provided
Bunny’s name was not dragged in. It would be easy to trace
the matter down, by looking up Ben’s real estate transactions
in the county records; he would have given a quit-claim deed
to the lot owners whom he had held up, and if these men were
still in the neighborhood, no doubt they would testify, or could
be made to. Bunny saw Rachel at the university next morning
and told her the story, and gave her a hundred dollar bill to
cover the costs of a title search. She passed it on to Joe or
Ikey, and two days later Ben was confronted by half a dozen
infuriated citizens, male and female, who did a good deal to
shake the jury’s faith in his testimony as to secret conspiracies
in the Workers’ party! The jury disagreed in the case of all
but two men, the leading party directors; these got six years
apiece, but the Menzies boys got off, and the party held a celebration,
which was described in the newspapers as an orgy of
red revolutionary raving.</p>

<h3>X</h3>

<p class="pindent">Dad was not so much troubled by the news which Bunny
told him, that Dan Irving was on the trail of Vernon Roscoe
in the national capital. There was bound to be gossip about
the lease, of course; there were always “soreheads,” trying to
make trouble, but everybody would understand it was jist politics.
It was the biggest “killing” of Dad’s life-time, and of
Verne’s, too; they would go ahead and drill the land and get
out the oil, and nothing else would count. You had to be a
sort of hard-shell crab in this game; it was too bad Bunny
wasn’t able to grow the necessary shell. Also, it was too bad
that a nice young feller like “the professor” couldn’t find anything
better to do with himself than to go smelling round
Verne’s out-house.</p>

<p class="pindent">There had been a new company formed, to develop this
greatest oil field in America, and Dad was part owner of the
stock, and a vice-president, with another hundred thousand a
year for directing the development work. But he wasn’t going
to wear himself out with detail, he promised Bunny; he had
trained some competent young fellers by now, and all he had
to do was direct them. It was a wonderful job, and he was all
wrapped up in putting it through, working harder than ever, in
defiance of his doctors.</p>

<p class="pindent">A telegram came from Verne; the leases had been signed.
Bunny arranged to get a week off from his studies—such favors
could be had by a grave old senior, especially when there was
hope that his father might endow a chair of research in petroleum
chemistry. They took a long drive to Sunnyside, a remote
part of the state, grazing country, with very few settlers, and
poor roads. They stayed in a crude country hotel, and inspected
the new fields, riding horseback part of the time. Dad’s geologists
were there, and the engineers and surveyors; they decided
upon the drilling sites, and the roads, and the pipe-lines, and
the tank-farm—yes, even a town, and how the streets were to
run, and where the moving picture theatre and the general store
were to be! The necessary wires had been pulled, and the
county was to start work on a paved road next week. It was
all hunkydory!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny ought to have been interested in all this; he ought
to have been proud of the “killing,” like any loyal son. Instead
of that, here he was as usual, “smelling round the out-house”
to use the ex-mule-driver’s crude phrase. The fates which
willed that Bunny should be always on the wrong side of his
father’s work followed him here to this country hotel, and
brought him into contact with an old ranchman, a feeble-faced,
pathetic old fellow with skin turned to leather by sixty years
of baking heat and winds. Anxious watery blue eyes he had,
and a big case of papers under his arm, which he wouldn’t leave
in his room for fear they would be stolen. He wanted Dad to
consider a lease, and of course Dad had no time to fool with
little leases, and told him so, and that settled it. But the old
man found out somehow that Bunny lacked the customary
hard-shell of the big oil-crabs, and succeeded in luring the
young man to his room and showing his documents. It was a
certified file from the department of the interior, all fixed up
with impressive red seals and blue ribbons—but all the same it
wasn’t complete, the old man declared; somebody had stolen
the essential documents from the government files, which
showed how “Mid-Central Pete” had done him out of his homestead.
“It’s a feller named Vernon Roscoe, one of the big
crooks in this game.”</p>

<p class="pindent">The old man, Carberry, had set out to homestead a claim
to some lands nearby; and oil had been discovered, and Mid-Central
Pete had just come in and shoved him out, paying him
not a cent for his twenty-two hundred dollars of improvements.
They could do this—the old man had a copy of the law to
show how it read, excluding “mineral lands” from homestead
rights; there were thousands in this part of the state who had
been caught in that trap. But Carberry had actually got a patent
on his land, and so had a valid claim; but somebody had
managed to doctor the government records, and now for several
years he had been struggling for redress. With pathetic
trustfulness he had written to his congressman, to get a lawyer
in Washington to represent him, and the congressman had recommended
a lawyer, and Carberry had sent him money several
times with no result—and then, going to Washington, had discovered
that the alleged lawyer was simply a clerk in the congressman’s
office, plundering land claimants and presumably
dividing the graft with his employer!</p>

<p class="pindent">A pitiful, pitiful story—and the worst part of it, you could
see it wasn’t a single case, but a system. One more way by
which the rich and powerful were plundering the poor and
weak! Carberry had with him a government document he
had managed to get in Washington, the report of a congressional
investigation of California land cases. Bunny spent an
evening glancing through it—a thousand pages of wholesale
fraud and stealing in close print. For example, the seizure of
oil rights by the railroads! The government land grants had
turned over to the railroads every other section of land along
their right of way, but had specifically exempted all “mineral
lands.” Wherever minerals might be discovered, the roads were
bound to surrender these sections and take other sections.
Under the law, the word “minerals” included petroleum; but
were the railroads paying any attention to that law? The
Southern Pacific alone had California oil lands to a value of
more than a billion dollars; but every effort to recover these
properties for the state had been blocked by cunning lawyers
and purchased politicians and judges. As they drove home,
Bunny tried to tell his father about this; but what could Dad
do? What could he do about old Carberry, who had been robbed
of his home by “Mid-Central Pete”? You could be sure that
Dad wasn’t going “smelling round Verne’s out-house”!</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XVII<br /> <span class="sub-head">THE EXPOSURE</span></h1></div>

<h3>I</h3>

<p class="pindent">All that fall and winter the quail had been calling from the
hills of Paradise unheeded. Bunny didn’t want to go there.
But now it chanced that Dad had some matters to see to, and
his chauffeur had got sent to jail for turning bootlegger in his
off hours. Dad was having spells of bad health, when he did
not feel equal to driving; and this being a Friday, his son
offered to take him.</p>

<p class="pindent">The Ross Junior tract had nothing left of Bunny but the
name. There was a strange woman as housekeeper in the
ranch-house, and the Rascum cabin had been moved, and the
bougainvillea vine replaced by a derrick. Every one of the fellows
who had met with Paul was gone, and there were no
more intellectual discussions. Paradise was now a place where
men worked hard at getting out oil, and kept their mouths
closed. There were hundreds of men Bunny had never seen
before, and these had brought a new atmosphere. They
patronized the bootleggers and the pool-rooms, and places for
secret gambling and drinking. “Orange-pickers” was the contemptuous
name the real oil workers applied to this new element,
and their lack of familiarity with their jobs was a cause
of endless trouble; they would slip from greasy derricks, or
get crushed by the heavy pipe, and the company had had to
build an addition to the hospital. But of course that was
cheaper than paying union wages to skilled men!</p>

<p class="pindent">A deplorable thing happened to Bunny; his reading of a
book was interrupted by a visit from the wife of Jick Duggan,
one of the men in the county jail. The woman insisted on
seeing him, and then insisted on weeping all over the place,
and telling him harrowing tales about her husband and the
other fellows. She begged him to go and see for himself, and
he was weak enough to yield—you can see how imprudent it
was, on the part of a young oil prince who was trying to grow
his hard-shell, so that he could be a help to his old father, and
enjoy life with a darling of the world. Bunny knew that he
was doing wrong, and showed his guilt by not telling his father
where he was going that rainy Saturday afternoon.</p>

<p class="pindent">They let him into the jail without objection; the men who
kept the place being used to it, and unable to foresee the impression
it would make upon a young idealist. The ancient dungeon
had been contrived by an architect with a special genius for
driving his fellow beings mad. The “tanks,” instead of having
doors with keys, like other jail cells, were designed as revolving
turrets, and whenever you wanted to put a prisoner in or take
one out, you revolved the turret until an opening in one set of
bars corresponded with an opening in another set. This revolving
was done by means of a hand-winch, and involved a
frightful grinding and shrieking of rusty iron. There were
three such tanks, one on top of the other, and the revolving of
any one inflicted the uproar on everybody. In the course of
the jail’s forty years of history, scores of men had gone mad
from having to listen to these sounds at all hours of the day
and night.</p>

<p class="pindent">Have you ever had the experience of seeing some person
you know and love shut behind bars like a wild beast? It was
something that hit Bunny in the pit of his stomach, and made
him weak and faint. Here were seven fellows, all but two of
them young as himself, crowding together like so many friendly
and affectionate deer, nuzzling through the bars and expecting
lumps of sugar or bits of bread. Their pitiful clamor of welcome,
the grateful light on their faces—just for a visit, a few
minutes of a rich young man’s time!</p>

<p class="pindent">These were all ranch-fellows, outdoor men, that had worked
in the sun and rain all their lives, and grown big and bronzed
and sturdy; but now they were bleached white or yellow, dirty
and unshaven, with sunken cheeks and hollow eyes. Jick
Duggan was coughing, just as his wife had said, and there was
not one healthy-looking man in the bunch. If Bunny had been
able to say to himself that these men had done some vile deed,
and this was their atonement, he might have justified it, even
while he questioned what good it would do; but they were there
because they had dared to dream of justice for their fellows,
and to talk about it, in defiance of the “open shop” crowd of big
business men!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny had sent them some books—they were allowed to
have books that didn’t look radical to very ignorant jailers, and
provided the books came direct from the publishers, so that
they would not have to be searched too carefully for concealed
objects such as saws and dope. Now they wanted to tell him
how much these books had helped, and to ask for more. And
what did Bunny know about their prospects of getting a trial?
Had he seen Paul, and what did Paul think? And what about
the union—was there anything left of it? They were not
allowed any sort of “radical” paper, so they were six or seven
months behind the news of their own world.</p>

<h3>II</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny came out into the sunshine with a fresh impulse of
desperation. His father was half sick, but even so, his father
must have this burden of pain dumped onto him! The last
time they had discussed the matter, Dad had said to wait,
Vernon Roscoe would “see what he could do.” But now Bunny
would wait no longer; Dad must compel Verne to act, or Bunny
would take up the job himself.</p>

<p class="pindent">He drove his father back to Angel City, and learned that the
radicals had organized a “defense committee,” and there was
to be a mass-meeting of protest, at which funds would be raised
for the approaching trial. Paul was to be the principal speaker—despite
the fact that it might cause his bail privilege to be
cancelled. When Bunny got that news, he served an ultimatum
on his father; the meeting was to take place the following week,
and unless Verne had acted in the meantime, Bunny was going
to be one of the speakers, and say his full say about the case.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad of course protested. But it was one of those times
when his son surprised him by failing to be “soft.” Bunny
went farther than ever in his desperation. “Maybe you’ll feel
I haven’t any right to behave like this while I’m living on your
money, and perhaps I ought to quit college and go to work
for myself.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Son, I’ve never said anything like that!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No, but I’m putting you in a hole with Verne, and it would
be easier if you could say I’m not living on you.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Son, I don’t want to say any such thing. But I do think
you ought to consider my position.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’ve considered everything, Dad—considered till I’m sick
at heart. I just can’t let my love for any one person in the
world take the place of my sense of justice. We’re committing
a crime to keep those men in jail, and I say Verne has got to
let them out, and if he don’t, then I’m going to make it hot
for him.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Verne was on his way back from the east; and Bunny
demanded that he should phone the district attorney his wishes;
he might phone the judge, too, if he thought necessary—it
wouldn’t be the first time, Bunny would wager. If he didn’t
do it, then Bunny’s name would be announced as one of the
speakers at that mass-meeting. Upon Dad flashed the memory
of that terrible meeting of Harry Seager’s; he saw his beloved
son publicly adopting that same ferocious mob, clasping that
sea of angry faces and uplifted hands and lungs of leather!</p>

<p class="pindent">Also Bunny renewed his threat about Annabelle. “You tell
Verne with my compliments, I’m going to lay siege to his
girl, and take her to that meeting. I’ll tell her he’s trying to
keep her in a golden cage, and that’ll make her go; and if ever
she hears the full story of those political prisoners, she’ll make
Verne wish he’d known when to quit!” Dad could hardly keep
from grinning. Poor old man, in his secret heart he was proud
of the kid’s nerve!</p>

<p class="pindent">Whether Dad used the argument about Annabelle, or what
he said, this much is history—two days after Vernon Roscoe
arrived from Washington in his private car, carrying in his
own hands the precious documents with the big red seals of
the department of the interior, the district attorney of San
Elido County appeared before Superior Judge Patten, and
entered a “nolle pros” in the eight criminal syndicalism cases.
So Vee Tracy got back her ten thousand dollars, and the seven
oil workers were turned out half-blinded into the sunshine, and
Bunny postponed his premier appearance in the role of that ill
bird—whatever may be the name of it—which is reputed to
foul its own nest.</p>

<h3>III</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny got the news before it was in the papers, and he
hastened to take it to Paul and Ruth. Paul had got work as
a carpenter, and they had rented a little cottage on the rear
of a lot. Ruth had started her nurse’s course in one of the big
hospitals, and Paul had got some books, and there was a little
of Paradise transported to a working-class part of Angel City.
And oh, the happiness that shone in Ruth’s face when Bunny
came in with the news! And then the strange mixture of
anguish and pride, as Paul spoke: “It’s good of you, son, to
have taken so much trouble, and I do appreciate it; but I’m
afraid you won’t think me very grateful when you hear what
I’m going to do with my freedom.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What is it, Paul?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’ve decided to join the Workers’ party.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, Paul!” Bunny’s face showed dismay. “But why?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Because I believe in their tactics. I always have, ever
since my time in Siberia. I waited, because I didn’t want to
hurt the strike; and after I got arrested, I couldn’t do anything
without compromising the other fellows. But now it
won’t hurt anyone but myself, so I’m going to say what I
know.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But Paul! They’ll only arrest you again!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Maybe so. But this time they’ll arrest me as a Communist,
and they’ll try me that way.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But they’ve already convicted so many!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s the way an unpopular cause has to grow—there’s
no other way. Here I am, an obscure workingman, and nobody
pays any attention to what I think or say; but if they try
me as a Communist, I make people talk and think about our
ideas.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny stole a look at Ruth: a pitiful sight, her eyes riveted
upon her brother, and her hands clasped tight in fear. It was
so that she had looked when Paul was going off to war. It
was her fate to see him go off to war!</p>

<p class="pindent">“Are you sure there’s nothing more important you can do,
Paul?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I used to think I was going to do a lot of great things.
But the last few years have taught me that a workingman isn’t
very important in this capitalist world, and he has to remember
his place. A lot of us are going to jail, and a lot more are
going to die. The one thing we must be sure of is that we help
to awaken the slaves.”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a pause. “You’re quite sure it can’t come peaceably,
Paul?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“The other has to say about that, son. Do you think they
were peaceable during the strike? You should have been there!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“And you’ve given up hope for democracy?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Not at all! Democracy is the goal—it’s the only thing
worth working for. But it can’t exist till we’ve broken the
strangle-hold of big business. That’s a fighting job, and it
can’t be done by democracy. Look at the boobs that Eli has
got in his tabernacle, and imagine them setting out to get the
best of Vernon Roscoe!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny could not avoid a smile. “That’s exactly Verne’s
own statement.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, he’s a practical man, and I’ve a great respect for him.
He wants to do something, and he finds out the way, and he
does it. He doesn’t let the government get in his way, does he?
No, he overthrows the government by bribery. By the way,
son, have you seen Dan Irving’s Washington letter this week?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“The paper’s at home, but I didn’t stop to look at it.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, you’ll be interested. Dan says it’s known to all the
newspaper men in Washington that Roscoe and O’Reilly made
a deal with the attorney-general to buy the nomination for
Harding, on condition they were to get these naval reserve
leases. They’ve been buying government officials right and
left, and newspaper men also. There’s a clamor for an investigation,
but the gang won’t let it happen.”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a pause. Paul, watching his friend’s face, saw
an uneasy look, and added, “Don’t talk to me about it, son—I
don’t want to know anything I’m not free to tell. But you and
I both understand—that is capitalist government, and what has
it got to do with democracy?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Again Bunny didn’t answer; and Paul said, “I think about
Verne, as you call him, because I’ve just had a run-in with
him, and he’s the system to me. I want to take his powers
away from him; and how am I going to do it? I’ve boxed the
compass, trying to figure how it can be done legally. He’s got
the courts, and they’ll call anything legal that he says; they’ll
wind you up in a spider’s web of technicalities. He’s got the
machinery for reaching the masses—you can’t tell them anything
but what he wants them to hear. He’s got the movies—people
say he has a movie star for a mistress—maybe you
know about that. And you’ve been to college—O’Reilly attends
to that, I’m told. We could never get a majority vote—because
Verne has the ballot-boxes stuffed; even if we elected anybody,
he’d have them bought before they got into office. The more
I think of the idea that he would give up to paper ballots—the
crazier it seems to me.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But then, Paul, what can you hope for?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’m going to the workers! Verne’s oil workers are the
basis of his power, they produce his wealth, and they can be
reached, they’re not scattered all over. They have one common
job, and one common interest—they want the wealth that
Verne takes from them. Of course they know that only dimly;
they read his newspapers, and go to his movies. But we’re
going to teach them—and when they take the oil wells, how
can Verne get them back?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“He’ll send troops and take them, Paul!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“He won’t send troops, because we’ll have the railwaymen.
We’ll have the telegraphers, and they’ll send our messages
instead of his. We’ll have the men in all the key industries—we’re
going out to organize them, and tell them exactly how to
do it—all power to the unions.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny was contemplating once more the vision which his
friend had brought back from Siberia. And Paul went on,
with that condescending air that had always impressed Bunny,
and infuriated his sister. “It seems dreadful to you, because
it means a fight, and you don’t want to fight—you don’t have to.
The men for this job are the ones that have had the iron in
their souls—men that have been beaten and crushed, thrown
into jail and starved there. That’s how Verne makes the revolution,
he throws us into jail and lets us rot. We lie there and
have bitter, black thoughts. All the Bolsheviks got their training
in dungeons; and now the masters are giving the same
course in America. It’s not only that we’re tempted and made
hard—it’s that we become marked men, the workers know us;
the poor slaves that don’t dare move a hand for themselves,
they learn that there are fellows they can trust, that won’t sell
them out to Vernon Roscoe! I’m going back to Paradise, son,
and teach Communism, and if Verne has me arrested again,
the Moscow program will go into the court records of San
Elido county!”</p>

<h3>IV</h3>

<p class="pindent">The newspapers announced a social event of the first importance,
the engagement of Miss Alberta Ross, only daughter of
Mr. J. Arnold Ross, to Mr. Eldon Burdick, a scion of one of
the oldest families of the city, and recently chosen president
of the California Defense League. A few days later came
the announcement that Mr. Burdick had been appointed a
secretary to the American embassy at Paris; and so the wedding
was a state occasion, with more flowers than were ever
seen in a church before, and Bunny all dolled up for a groomsman,
and Dad looking as handsome as the ringmaster of a
circus, and Aunt Emma, who considered that she had made this
match, assuming the mental position of the bride’s mother, with
the proper uncertain expression, half elation and half tears.
“Mrs. Emma Ross, aunt of the bride, wore pink satin
embroidered in pastel colored beads and carried pink lilies”—thus
the newspapers, which set forth the importance of the
Burdick family, and all about the Ross millions, and never mentioned
that the father of the bride had once been a mule-driver,
nor even that he had kept a general store at Queen Center,
California!</p>

<p class="pindent">And when the excitement was all over, and bride and groom
had set out for their post of duty, then a funny thing happened;
Aunt Emma, uplifted by her success as match-maker, turned
her arts upon Bunny! The occasion was the world premiere
of “The Princess of Patchouli,” a sort of family event. Had
not Dad and Bunny been present at the inception of this
sumptuous work of art? Had not Dad been king? By golly,
he had, and he had told Aunt Emma about it at least a dozen
times—and so, what more natural than that he should escort
her upon his arm, following immediately behind the star of
the occasion and her Bunny-rabbit? And what more natural
than that Aunt Emma should meet Vee Tracy, and fall in love
with her at first sight, and tell her darling nephew about her
feelings?</p>

<p class="pindent">In short, Bunny became aware that he was being manipulated
by the proverbial tact of woman to think that Vee Tracy
made a perfect princess on the screen, she was a natural-born
aristocrat in both appearance and manner. It is part of the
proverbial intuitive powers of woman, that she will be able to
say exactly how an aristocrat will look and act, even though
she has never been outside the state of California, and never
laid eyes upon a single aristocrat in all her fifty years.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny said, yes, Vee was all right; she was a good-looker.
With the proverbial unresponsiveness of the selfish male, he
did not warm up to his aunt’s hints and tell about his love-affair.
In fact he was rather shocked, because he thought she
was too old to know about anything improper. So Aunt Emma
had to come right out with it, “Why don’t you marry her,
Bunny?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, but Aunt Emma, I don’t know that she’d have me.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Have you ever asked her?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, I’ve sort of hinted round.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, you stop hinting, and ask her plain. She’s a lovely
girl, and you’re getting old enough to be serious now, and I
think it would make a very distinguished marriage, and I know
it would please your father—I believe he’ll propose to her himself
if you don’t.” Aunt Emma was quite charmed with this
naughtiness, giving the younger generation to understand that
they needn’t be laying the old folks away on the shelf quite yet!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny always liked to oblige; so he went off and thought it
over, and half made up his mind to talk it over with Vee. But
alas, the next time they met they got into one of those disputes
that were making it so hard for them to be happy. Vee had
just come from Annabelle Ames, and reported that Annabelle
was in distress, because some rascal journalist was writing
letters from Washington, accusing Verne of having bought the
presidency of the United States, denouncing the Sunnyside
lease as the greatest steal of the century, and demanding that
Verne be prosecuted for bribery. Some thoughtful friend had
cut out a copy of this printed article, and marked it all with
red pencil and mailed it to Annabelle’s home, marked “Personal.”
The article was most abusive, and the name of the
writer sounded familiar to Vee—Daniel Webster Irving, where
had she heard of Daniel Webster Irving? Of course Bunny
had to tell her at once—because she’d be bound to find it out,
and would think he was hiding it from her: Dan Irving was
his former teacher at the university, and head of the labor
college that had failed.</p>

<p class="pindent">So then Vee went up into the air. This fellow had been
worming secrets out of Bunny! And when Bunny stated firmly
that he had never mentioned the matter to Dan or to any other
of his radical friends, Vee cried, “Oh, my God! My God!
You poor, naive, trusting soul!” She went on like that, it was
proof positive of the cunning of these dangerous reds, that
they should be able to keep him in ignorance while they used
him for an oil well and pumped him dry! In Vee’s view of
the matter, it now became of the utmost urgency that Annabelle
and Verne should not find out that Bunny knew this rascal
journalist, and had actually helped to support him. If they
found out, it would be all over with their friendship, they
would be sure they had been basely betrayed, or at least that
Bunny was such a scatter-brain that it was unsafe to have him
about. Vee wanted to be loyal and romantic and melodramatic,
just like one of her “continuities.” And Bunny was bored, and
told her that Dad had probably told Verne all about the matter,
at the time that he, Bunny, had told his father.</p>

<p class="pindent">So the young oil prince did not ask the “natural-born aristocrat”
to marry him. No, he went off and was wretchedly
unhappy; because he ached for Vee whenever he was away
from her, and yet they seemed to be always having violent
emotional crises, and having to make it up with tears. There
was no way for him to avoid trouble, except to give up the
radical movement; and it was a fact that intellectually nothing
else appealed to him. He wanted to see Paul, and argue with
him, and present a score of new objections to the Workers’
party! He wanted to take Rachel to meet Paul and Ruth, and
hear the arguments that would fly fast and furious, when Rachel
set forth her opinion of the left wing insanity! He wanted to
go to the meetings of the “Ypsels,” the Young Peoples’
Socialist League, of which Rachel had recently taken on the
duties of secretary—here was real education, young folks who
actually wanted to use their minds, and took ideas with the
seriousness that other students reserved for football and
fraternity politics!</p>

<h3>V</h3>

<p class="pindent">Of all the people Bunny knew, it appeared just now that
only one was perfectly successful and completely happy, and
that was Eli Watkins, prophet of the Third Revelation. For
the Lord had carried out to the letter the promise revealed to
the runners of the Bible Marathon; he had caused a great
banker, Mark Eisenberg, who ran the financial affairs of Angel
City, to reflect upon the importance of Eli’s political influence,
and to put up a good part of the money for the new tabernacle.
Now the structure was completed, and was opened amid such
glory to the Lord as had never been witnessed in this part of
the world.</p>

<p class="pindent">Southern California is populated for the most part by retired
farmers from the middle west, who have come out to die amid
sunshine and flowers. Of course they want to die happy, and
with the assurance of sunshine and flowers beyond; so Angel
City is the home of more weird cults and doctrines—you
couldn’t form any conception of it till you came to investigate.
To run your eye over the pages of performances advertised in
the Sunday newspapers would cause you to burst into laughter
or tears, according to your temperament. Wherever three or
more were gathered together in the name of Jesus or Buddha
or Zoroaster, or Truth or Light or Love, or New Thought or
Spiritualism or Psychic Science—there was the beginning of a
new revelation, with mystical, inner states of bliss and esoteric
ways of salvation.</p>

<p class="pindent">Eli had advantages over most of these spiritual founders.
In the first place, he had been a real shepherd of flocks and
herds, and there are age-old traditions attaching to this profession.
Also it was symbolically useful; what Eli had done to
the goats he was now doing to the human goats of Angel City,
gathering them into the fold and guarding them from the cruel
wolf Satan. He had taken to carrying a shepherd’s crook on
the platform, and with his white robes and the star shining in
his yellow hair, he would call the flocks, just as he had done
upon the hills, and when he passed the collection plate, they
would do the shearing of themselves.</p>

<p class="pindent">Eli possessed a sense of drama and turned it loose in the
devising of primitive little tableaux and pageants, which gave
rapture to his simple minded followers. When he told how he
had been tempted of the devil, the wicked One came upon the
scene, hoofs, horns and tail, and with a red spotlight on him;
when Eli lifted up the cross on high, the devil would fall and
strike his forehead on the ground, and the silver trumpets
would peal, and the followers would burst into loud hosannas.
Or perhaps it would be the command, “Suffer little children to
come unto me”; there would be hundreds of children, all robed
in white, and when Eli lifted his shepherd’s crook and called,
they came storming to the platform, their fresh young voices
shouting, “Praise the Lord!” And of course there was the
regular mourners’ bench, and the baptisms in the marble
tank. You were never allowed to forget that you had a soul,
and that it was of supreme importance to you and to Jesus
and that you were having it saved by Eli’s aid. You were
always being called upon to do something—to stand up for the
Lord, or to clap your hands for salvation, or to raise your right
hand if you were a new-comer to the tabernacle.</p>

<p class="pindent">But the great advantage Eli had over the other prophets
was the pair of leathern bellows he had developed out on the
hills of Paradise. Never was there such an electrifying voice,
and never one that could keep going so long. All day Sunday
it bellowed and boomed—morning, afternoon, evening; there
were week-day services every evening but Saturday, and in the
mornings and afternoons there were prayer meetings and Bible
schools and services of song and healing blessings and baptismal
ceremonials and thank offerings and wholesale weddings
and Bride of the Lamb dedications—you just couldn’t keep
track of all that was going on in the many rooms and meeting-halls
of this half million dollar tabernacle.</p>

<p class="pindent">Science had just completed a marvelous invention; the
human voice became magnified a hundred million-fold, it could
be spread over the whole earth. The population of America
had gone wild over radio, and everybody had rushed to get a
set. The first great public use made of this achievement in
Angel City was to open a new three million dollar hotel for
the pleasure of the very rich, and the opening ceremonies were
broadcasted, and the newspapers were full of the wonder of it;
but it proved to be dreadful, because everybody in the hotel got
drunk, and the manager of the institution placed himself in
front of the microphone and poured out a stream of obscenities
such as farmers’ wives from Iowa had never dreamed in all
their lives. So it was felt that the new invention needed to be
sanctified and redeemed, and Eli proceeded to install one of the
biggest and most powerful broadcasting stations. Through the
Lord’s mercy, his words were heard over four million square
miles, and it was worthwhile to preach to audiences of that size,
praise Jesus!</p>

<p class="pindent">Eli’s preaching had thus become one of the major features
of Southern California life. You literally couldn’t get away
from him if you tried. Dad had been told by his doctor that
he needed more exercise, and he had taken to walking for half
an hour before dinner; he declared that he listened to Eli’s
sermons on all these walks, and never missed a single word!
Everybody’s house was wide open in this warm spring weather,
and all you had to do was to choose a neighborhood where the
moderately poor lived—and 90 percent of the people were
that. You would hear the familiar bellowing voice, and before
you got out of range of it, you would come in range of another
radio set, and so you would be relayed from street to street
and from district to district! In these houses sat old couples
with family bibles in their hands and tears of rapture in their
eyes; or perhaps a mother washing her baby’s clothes or making
a pudding for her husband’s supper—and all the time her soul
caught up to glory on the wings of the mighty prophet’s eloquence!
And Dad walking outside, also exalted—because,
don’t forget that he was the man who had started this Third
Revelation—he had invented all its patter, that day he had tried
to keep old Abel Watkins from beating his daughter Ruth!</p>

<h3>VI</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny received a letter from Dan Irving, telling about his
new job. It was a simple matter to be a radical press correspondent
in Washington these days; the regular newspaper
fellows were loaded up with material they were not allowed
to handle. All but a few of the “hard guys” were boiling over
with indignation at what they saw, and when they met Dan,
they boiled over on him. The only trouble was, his labor press
service had so little space, and only a score or two of radical
papers that would look at its material.</p>

<p class="pindent">President Harding had brought with him a swarm of camp
followers, his political bodyguard at home; the newspaper men
knew them as “the Ohio gang,” and they were looting everything
in sight. Barney Brockway had given one of his henchmen
a desk in the secret service department; this was the
“fixer,” and if you wanted anything, he would tell you the price.
The Wilson administration had grown fat by exploiting the
properties seized from enemy aliens; and now the Harding
administration was growing fat out of turning them back!
Five percent was the regular “split”; if you wanted to recover
a ten million dollar property, you turned over half a million
in liberty bonds to the “fixer.” Bootlegging privileges were
sold for millions, and deals were made right in the lobbies of
the Capitol. Dan heard from insiders that more than three
hundred millions had already been stolen from the funds appropriated
for relief of war veterans—the head of that bureau
was another of the “Ohio gang.” And the amazing fact was,
no matter how many of these scandals you might unearth, you
couldn’t get a single big newspaper or magazine in the country
to touch them!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny took that letter to his father, and as usual it meant
to the old man exactly the opposite of what it meant to Bunny.
Yes, politics were rotten, and so you saw the folly of trusting
business matters to government. Take business away from the
politicians, and turn it over to business men, who would run it
without graft. If those oil lands had been given to Dad and
Verne in the beginning, there wouldn’t have been any bribing—wasn’t
that clear? Dad and Verne were patriots, putting an end
to a vicious public policy!</p>

<p class="pindent">Did Dad really believe that? It was hard for Bunny to be
sure. Dad had lies that he told to the public; and perhaps he
had others that he told to his son, and yet others that he told
to himself. If you laid hold of him and tore all those lies away,
he would not be able to stand the sight of his nakedness.</p>

<p class="pindent">His enemies, the “soreheads” in Congress, were busily
engaged in depriving him of these spiritual coverings. There
was one old senator in Washington by the name of LaFollette—his
head had been sore for forty years, and no way could be
found to heal it. Now he was denouncing the oil leases, and
demanding an investigation. The Harding machine had blocked
him, but it couldn’t keep him from making speeches—he would
talk for eight hours at a stretch, and the galleries would be full,
and then he would mail out his speeches under government
frank. Dad would grumble and growl—and then in the midst
of it he would realize that his own dear son was on the side
of these trouble-makers! Instead of sympathizing with his
father’s lies, Bunny was criticizing them, and making his father
ashamed!</p>

<p class="pindent">Then a painful thing happened. There was a newspaper
publisher in a western city, one of those old pirates of the
frontier type, who had begun life as a bartender, and delighted
to tell how he would toss a silver dollar up to the ceiling, and
if it stuck it belonged to the boss and if it came down it
belonged to him. By this means he had got rich, and now he
owned a paper, and he got onto this scandal of the oil leases.
There came to him a man who had some old claim to part of
the Sunnyside lease, and the publisher made a deal with this
man to go halves, and then he served notice on Verne that they
had to have a million dollars. Verne told him to go to hell,
and the result was, this newspaper opened up with front page
exposures of the greatest public steal in history. And this was
no obscure Socialist sheet, this was one of the most widely read
newspapers in the country, and copies were being mailed to all
members of Congress, and to other newspapers—gee, it was
awful! Dad and Verne and the rest held anxious conferences,
and suffered agonies of soul; in the end they had to give up to
the old pirate, and paid him his million in cold cash—and the
great newspaper lost all its interest in the public welfare!</p>

<p class="pindent">When Bunny was a youngster, he had read the stories of
Captain Mayne Reid, and he remembered one scene—a fish-hawk
capturing a fish, and then a swift eagle swooping down
from the sky and taking the prize away. Just so it was in the
oil-game—a world of human hawks and eagles!</p>

<h3>VII</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny no longer felt comfortable about going to the
Monastery. But Vee would not let him quit, she argued and
pleaded; Annabelle was so kind and good, and would be so
hurt if he let horrid political quarrels break up their friendship!
Bunny answered—he knew Verne must be sore as the dickens;
and imagine Verne being tactful or considerate of a guest!</p>

<p class="pindent">When you went out into society and refused to take a drink,
you caused everybody to begin talking about prohibition. In
the same way, when you did not join in denunciation of the
“insurgent” senators in Washington, you caused some one to
comment on your sympathy for bomb-throwers. The little
bunch of “reds” in Congress were interfering with legislation
much desired by the rich, and they were denounced at every
dinner-table, including Vernon Roscoe’s. The great Schmolsky
said, what the hell were they after, anyhow? And Verne replied
“Ask Jim Junior—he’s chummy with them,” Annabelle had
to jump in and cry, “No politics! I won’t have you picking on
my Bunny!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Then, later in the evening, when Harvey Manning got drunk,
he sat on Bunny’s knee, very affectionate, as he always was,
and shook one finger in front of Bunny’s nose and remarked,
“You gonna tell’m ’bout me?” And when Bunny inquired,
“Tell who, Harve?” the other replied, “Those muckrakin
friends o yours. I aint gonna have ’em tellin on me! My ole
uncle fines out I get drunk he’ll cut me out o his will.” So
Bunny knew that his intimacy with the enemy had been a
subject of discussion at the Monastery!</p>

<p class="pindent">There had been a series of violent outbreaks in Angel City.
The members of the American Legion, roused by the “red
revolutionary raving,” had invaded the headquarters of the
I. W. W. and thrown the members down the stairs, and thrown
their typewriters and desks after them. Since the courts
wouldn’t enforce law and order, these young men were going
to attend to it. They had raided bookstores which sold books
with red bindings, and dumped the books into the street and
burned them. They had beaten up newsdealers who were selling
radical magazines. Also they were taking charge of the
speakers the public heard—if they didn’t like one, they notified
the owner of the hall, and he hastened to break his contract.</p>

<p class="pindent">John Groby, one of Verne’s oil associates from Oklahoma,
was at the dinner-table, and he said, that was the way to handle
the rattle-snakes. Groby may not have known that one of the
snakes was sitting across the way from him, so Bunny took no
offense, but listened quietly. “That’s the way we did the job
at home, we turned the Legion loose on ’em and cracked their
heads, and they moved on to some other field. You’re too
polite out here, Verne.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Annabelle had put Bunny beside her, so that she might
protect him from assaults. Now she started telling him about
her new picture, “A Mother’s Heart.” Such a sweet, old-fashioned
story! Bunny would call it sentimental, perhaps,
but the women would just love it, and it gave her a fine part.
Also Vee had a clever scenario for her new picture, “The
Golden Couch.” Quite a fetching title, didn’t Bunny think?
And all the time, above the soft murmur of Annabelle’s voice,
Bunny heard the loud noise of John Groby blessing the Legion.
Bunny longed to ask him what the veterans would say to the
“Ohio gang,” stealing the funds from their disabled buddies.</p>

<p class="pindent">Someone mentioned another stunt of the returned soldiers—their
setting up a censorship of moving pictures. One Angel
City theatre had started to show a German film, “The Cabinet
of Dr. Caligari,” and this Hun invasion had so outraged the
Legion men, they had put on their uniforms and blockaded the
theatre, and beaten up the people who tried to get in. Tommy
Paley laughed—the courage of each of those veterans had been
fortified by a five-dollar bill, contributed by the association of
motion picture producers! They didn’t want foreign films that
set them too high a standard!</p>

<p class="pindent">Then Schmolsky. He was too fat to comprehend such a
thing as irony, and he remarked that the directors were mighty
damn right. Schmolsky, a Jew from Ruthenia, or Rumelia, or
Roumania, or some such country, said that we didn’t want no
foreign films breaking in on our production schedules. An
hour or so later Bunny heard him telling how the Hollywood
films were sweeping the German market—it wouldn’t be three
years before we’d own this business. “Vae victis!” remarked
Bunny; and Schmolsky looked at him, puzzled, and said, “Huh?”</p>

<h3>VIII</h3>

<p class="pindent">From such a week end Bunny would return to Angel City,
and accompany Rachel to a meeting of the Young People’s
Socialist League. In an obscure hall twenty-five or thirty boys
and girls of the working-class met once a week, and read papers,
and discussed problems of politics and economics, the labor
movement and the Socialist party. Rachel had grown up with
this organization, and had prestige with it because she had got
a college education, and because she brought “Comrade Ross”
with her. The most thoroughly “class-conscious” young people
could not help being thrilled by a spectacle so unusual as a
millionaire who sympathized with the workers and had helped
to bail out political prisoners.</p>

<p class="pindent">With these young Socialists, as with the old ones, it was
right wing versus left; everybody argued tactics, and got tremendously
excited. The Communists also had an organization,
the Young Workers’ League, and the two rivals carried on
sniping operations; sometimes they held formal debates, and
young people would jump up and down in their seats, and carry
on the controversy in their homes and working places for weeks
afterwards. It was Moscow versus Amsterdam, the Third
International versus the Second, the “reds” against the “pinks,”
as the mild Socialists were called. And this same struggle was
going on in the soul of Bunny. Paul Watkins would pull him
forward, and then Rachel Menzies would haul him back; and
his trouble seemed to be, he was of the opinion of the one he
talked with last. He was so prone to see the other fellow’s
point of view, and lose himself in that! Why couldn’t he have
a mind of his own?</p>

<p class="pindent">Theoretically it was possible to bring about the change
from Capitalism to Socialism by peaceable, one-step-at-a-time
methods. Anyone could lay out the steps. But when you came
to take the first one, you confronted the fact that the capitalists
didn’t want to be evolved into Socialism, and wouldn’t let you
take any step. It was a fact that so far they had outwitted the
workers at every turn; they had even forced the government to
retrace the steps which had been taken in the emergency of war.
It was also true, as Paul contended, that the capitalists would
not permit the workers to be peaceable; they resorted to
violence every time, and set aside the laws and the constitution
when it suited their convenience.</p>

<p class="pindent">To Bunny that seemed a pathetic thing about the Socialists.
Take a man like Chaim Menzies; he had the long vision, the
patience of the elderly worker; with ages of toil behind him,
and ages ahead of him, he did not shrink from the task of
building an organization. But he was never allowed to finish
the building, the masters would knock it down overnight; they
sent in spies, they bribed the officials and sowed discord, and
in time of strikes their police and gunmen raided the offices,
and jailed the leaders, and drove the workers back into slavery.
So here was a curious situation—the masters in their blindness
working as allies of the Communists! Verne and his oil
operators and the rest of the open shop crowd saying to the
working people, “No, don’t listen to the Socialists, they are
a bunch of old fogies. The Communists are the fellows who
can tell you what we are like, and how we are going to
behave!”</p>

<p class="pindent">One thing Bunny had felt certain about—the workers ought
to determine their tactics without bitterness and internal strife.
But now he was beginning to doubt if even that were possible.
The quarrel between the two factions was implicit in the nature
of the problem. If you believed in a peaceable transition, your
course of action would be one thing, and if you didn’t so
believe, it would be another thing. If you thought you could
persuade the masses of the voters, you would be cautious and
politic, and would avoid the extremists, whose violent ways
would repel the voters. So you would try to keep the Communists
out of your organization, and of course that would
make them hate you, and denounce you as a compromiser and
a “class collaborator,” and insist that you were in the pay
of the bosses, who hired you to keep the workers under their
yoke.</p>

<p class="pindent">And then the Socialists would counter with the same charge
of bribery. Chaim Menzies never failed to declare that some
of the Communists were secret agents, paid by the bosses to
split the movement, and expose it to raids by the police. Bunny
knew, from talk he heard among his father’s associates, that
these big business men had elaborate secret agencies for the
disrupting of the labor movement. And these agencies would
work either way; they would hire old line leaders to sell out
the workers, calling off strikes, or calling premature strikes
that couldn’t win; or they would send in spies to pose as reds
and split the organizations and tempt the leaders into crime.
Incredible as it might seem, the government secret service,
under that great patriot, Barney Brockway, was up to the neck
in such work. At the trial of one group of Communists the
federal judge presiding remarked that apparently the whole
direction of the Communist party was in the hands of the
United States government!</p>

<h3>IX</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny was always having the beautiful dream that his
friends were going to be friends with one another. Now he
took Rachel to call on Paul and Ruth; he liked them so, and
they must share his feelings. But alas, they didn’t seem to!
Both sides were reserved, and avoided talking politics as carefully
as if they had been visiting at the Monastery! But Bunny
wanted them to talk politics, because he was trying to settle his
own inner debate, and he felt that they were qualified, they
were members of the working-class, while he was only an outsider.
Perhaps one might convert the other; but which one
he wanted to be the converter, and which the converted, it
would have been hard for him to say!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny questioned Paul, and learned that he had given up
his carpentry job—the Workers’ party was paying him a small
salary to give all his time to organizing. Paul had met Joe and
Ikey Menzies, the young “left wingers”; and Bunny told about
how he and Rachel had helped to put Ben Skutt out of business
at the trial. How he wished the Socialists and the Communists
might work together like that, instead of making things
easier for the enemy!</p>

<p class="pindent">Thus led on, Rachel said that she would be interested to
understand the ideas of Comrade Watkins. (Whenever a
Socialist wanted to be very polite to a Bolshevik, she called
him by that old term, which had applied before the family row
broke out!) How could a mass uprising succeed in America,
with the employing class in possession of all the arms and means
of communication? They had poison gas now, and would wipe
out thousands of the rebel workers at a time. The one possible
outcome would be reaction—as in Italy, where the workers
had seized the factories, and then had had to give them up
because they couldn’t run them.</p>

<p class="pindent">Comrade Watkins replied that Italy had no coal, but was
dependent on Britain and America, which thus had the power
to strangle the Italian workers. As a matter of fact the
Fascist reaction in Italy had been made by American bankers—Mussolini
and his ruffians had not dared to move a finger till
they had made certain of American credits. We had played the
same role there as in Hungary and Bavaria; all over the world,
American gold was buttressing reaction. Paul had seen it with
his own eyes in Siberia, and he said, with his quiet decisiveness,
that nobody could understand what it meant unless he
had been there. Paul didn’t blame Comrade Menzies for feeling
as she did, that was natural for one who had been brought
up under peace conditions; but Paul had been to war, he had
seen the class struggle in action.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, Comrade Watkins,” said Rachel, “but if you try and
fail, things will be so much worse!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“If we never try,” said Paul, “we can never succeed; and
even if we fail, the class-consciousness of the workers will be
sharpened, and the end will be nearer than if we do nothing.
We have to keep the revolutionary goal before the masses, and
not let them be lured into compromise. That is my criticism
of the Socialist movement, it fails to realize the intellectual
and moral forces locked up in the working-class, that can be
called out by the right appeal.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Ah,” said Rachel, “but that is the question—what is the
right appeal? I want to appeal to peace rather than to violence.
That seems to me more moral.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul answered, that to make peace appeals to a tiger might
seem moral to some, but to him it seemed futile. The determining
fact in the world was what the capitalist class had done
during the past nine years. They had destroyed thirty million
human lives, and three hundred billions of wealth, everything
a whole generation of labor had created. So Paul did not enter
into discussions of morality with them; they were a set of murderous
maniacs, and the job was to sweep them out of power.
Any means that would succeed were moral means, because
nothing could be so immoral as capitalism.</p>

<p class="pindent">When Bunny went out with Rachel, she said that Paul was
an extraordinary man, and certainly a dangerous one to the
capitalist class. He was a case of shell-shock from the war,
and those who had made the war would have to deal with him.
Then Bunny asked about Ruth, and Rachel said she was a nice
girl, but a little colorless, didn’t Comrade Ross think? Bunny
tried to explain that Ruth was deep, her feelings were intense,
but she seldom expressed them. Rachel said Ruth ought to
think for herself, because she would have a lot of suffering if
she followed Paul through his Bolshevik career. Bunny suggested
that Rachel might help to educate her, but Rachel smiled
and said that Comrade Ross was too naive; surely Paul would
not like to have a Socialist come in and steal his sister’s sympathy
from him. In spite of all Bunny could do, his women
friends would not be friends!</p>

<p class="pindent">Then later on Bunny saw Paul, and got Paul’s reaction to
Rachel. A nice girl, well-meaning and intelligent, but she
wouldn’t keep her proletarian attitude very long. The social
revolution in America was not going to be made by young lady
college graduates doing charity work for the capitalist class!
What she was doing among the “Ypsels” was mostly wasted
effort, according to Paul, because these Socialist organizations
spent their efforts fighting Communism. The capitalists ought
to be glad to hire her to do such work!</p>

<p class="pindent">But somehow it wasn’t that way, Bunny found; the capitalists
were narrow-minded, and lacking in vision! A few
days later Bunny learned that Rachel was facing a serious
dilemma. She had taken her four years course at the university
with the idea of making a career as a social worker; but
now a woman friend, upon whose advice she was acting, had
warned her that she was throwing away her chances by her
activity with these “Ypsels.” It was hard enough for a Jewish
girl, and one from the working-classes, to have a professional
career, without taking on the added handicap of Socialism.
Rachel should at least wait till she had got a position, and got
herself established.</p>

<p class="pindent">So there were more troubles! What was Rachel going to
do? The answer was that she was not going to desert her
beloved young Socialists. It was all very well to say wait, but
that was the way all compromising began; once you started,
you never knew where to stop. No, Rachel would take her
chances of the “Ypsels” being raided by the police, or placarded
in the newspapers as a conspiracy to undermine the morals of
youth! If it turned out that her friend was right, and the bourgeoisie
wouldn’t have her as a dispenser of their charities, she
would find some sort of job in the labor movement. And
Bunny went off to keep an engagement to a dinner party with
Vee Tracy; he went with a sober face and a troubled conscience,
neither of which he was clever enough to hide!</p>

<h3>X</h3>

<p class="pindent">Graduation time was at hand, and all the grave old seniors
had the job of choosing their future careers. Dad asked Bunny
if he had made up his mind, and Bunny answered that he had.
“But I hate to tell you, Dad, because it’s going to make you
unhappy.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What is it, son?” A look of concern was upon the old
man’s round but heavily lined features.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, I want to go away for a year, and take another
name, and get myself a job as a worker in one of the big
industries.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, my God!” A pause, while Dad gazed into his son’s
troubled eyes. “What does that mean?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Just that I want to understand the working people, and
that’s the only way.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You can’t ask them what you want to know?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No, Dad they don’t know it themselves—except dimly. It
is something you have to live.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Good Lord, son, let me help you! I’ve been there. It
means dirt and vermin and disease—I thought I was saving
you from it, and making things easier for you!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I know, Dad, but it’s a mistake; it doesn’t work out as you
thought. When a young fellow has everything too easy for
him, he gets soft, he has no will of his own. I know what
you’ve done, and I’m grateful for it, but I have to try something
different, for a time.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You can’t possibly find anything hard enough for you in
the job of running an oil industry?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I might, Dad, if I could really run it. But you know I
can’t do that. It’s yours; and even if you gave it to me, Verne
and the operators’ federation wouldn’t let me do what I’d want
to do. No, Dad, there’s something vitally wrong with the oil
industry, and I can never play the game with the rest. I want
to go off and try something on my own.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You mean to go alone?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“There’s another fellow has the same idea, and we’re going
together. Gregor Nikolaieff.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“That Russian! Couldn’t you possibly find an American
to associate with?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, it just happens, Dad, that none of the Americans
are interested.”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a long pause. “And you really mean this
seriously?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, Dad, I’m going to do it.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You know, son, the big industries are pretty rough, most
of them. Some of the men get badly hurt, and some killed.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes; that’s just the point.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It’s pretty hard on a father that has only one son, and had
hopes for him. You know, I’ve really thought a lot about you—it’s
been the main reason I worked so hard.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I know, Dad; and don’t think I haven’t suffered about it;
but I just can’t help doing it.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Another pause. “Have you thought about Vee?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Have you told her?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No, I’ve been putting it off, just as I did with you. I
know she won’t stand for it. I shall have to give her up.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“A man ought to think a long time before he throws away
his happiness like that, son.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I have thought, all I know how. But I couldn’t spend my
life as an appendage to Vee’s moving picture career. I should
be suffocated with luxury. I have convictions of my own, and
I have to follow them. I want to try to help the workers, and
first I have to know how they feel.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It seems to me, son, you talk like one of them—I mean the
red ones.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Maybe so, Dad, but I assure you, it doesn’t seem that way
to the reds!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Again there was a silence. Dad’s supply of words was
running short. “I never heard of such a thing in my life!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It is really quite an old idea—at least twenty-four hundred
years.” And Bunny went on to tell about that young Lord
Siddhartha, in far off India, who is known to the western world
as Buddha; how he gave up his lands and his treasures, and
went out to wander with a beggar’s bowl, in the hope of finding
some truth about life that was not known at court. “The palace
which the king had given to the prince was resplendent with
all the luxuries of India; for the king was anxious to see his
son happy. All sorrowful sights, all misery, and all knowledge
of misery were kept away from Siddhartha, and he knew not
that there was evil in the world. But as the chained elephant
longs for the wilds of the jungle, so the prince was eager to
see the world, and he asked his father, the king, for permission
to do so. And Shuddhodana ordered a jewel-fronted chariot
with four stately horses to be held ready, and commanded the
roads to be adorned where his son would pass.” And then
Bunny, seeing the bewildered look on Shuddhodana’s face,
began to laugh. “Which would you rather I became, Dad—a
Buddhist or a Bolshevik?”</p>

<p class="pindent">And truly, Dad wouldn’t have known what to decide!</p>

<h3>XI</h3>

<p class="pindent">There has been during the present century a new universe
opened up to knowledge—the subconscious mind—and many
strange things are told about it. It is accustomed to make
determined efforts to have its own way; and sometimes when
it is balked it will go to such lengths as to make the body ill.
A jealous wife will suffer nervous collapse, a quite genuine
case, thus retaining the attentions of her husband; and so on
through a catalog of strange phenomena. But the Freudian
theories, not being consistent with Methodist theology, had not
yet penetrated into Southern Pacific. So Bunny was entirely
unsuspicious when it happened, just after his graduation, and
before he set out with Gregor Nikolaieff, that Dad came down
with a severe attack of the flu. Of course Bunny had to postpone
his leaving, and was able to find all the trouble he needed
at home. There were several days when it was not certain if
Dad would live; and Bunny felt all the remorse that Vernon
Roscoe had foretold. Also he faced the alarming prospect, he
might have to take over control of all those millions of Dad’s
money!</p>

<p class="pindent">The old man pulled through; but he was very weak, and
pitiful, and the doctor warned his family that the flu was apt
to leave the heart in bad condition, and he would have to be
guarded and kept from shock. Down in the deeps of Dad
there must have been a merry chuckling, for now it was impossible
for Bunny to go away. The father clung to his boy’s
hand like a child, and Bunny must sit and read to him the sad
and tender story of the young Lord Siddhartha. Had Dad
said something to Vee about the plot, or was it a telepathic
contact between two subconscious minds? She came frequently
to the house, and was so kind and sympathetic—the wild elephant
in Bunny’s spirit was tied down with a million silken
cords.</p>

<p class="pindent">And then, when Dad was able to be about, and to sit on the
porch in the sunshine, his shrewd conscious mind started work,
and presently he had a scheme. “Son, I’ve been thinking about
your problem, and I realize that you have a right to express
your ideas. I’ve been wondering if we mightn’t work out a
compromise, and let me help.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“How, Dad?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, you might have some money that you could use in
your own way, and wouldn’t feel you were taking from mine.
Of course, I wouldn’t feel it was right to help you do anything
that was against the law; but if there is some kind of education
that isn’t for violence, why, that would be all right, and if you
had an income of a thousand dollars a month that you might
use for such propaganda—would that help?”</p>

<p class="pindent">A thousand dollars a month! Gee whiz! Bunny forgot the
standards of his own class, according to which a thousand
dollars a month would not keep a string of polo-ponies or a
small racing yacht; he thought according to the standards of
the radicals, to whom a thousand dollars a month meant a whole
labor college or a weekly paper! Nothing was said about
Bunny’s staying at home, but he understood that the offer was
a bribe; he would have to administer the fund! He yielded to
the temptation, and hastened to phone Rachel—he had a job
in sight for her!</p>

<p class="pindent">He invited her to lunch; and all the way as he drove to the
place, his busy mind was flying from scheme to scheme. Rachel
would remain secretary of the “Ypsels,” and be paid a salary
for her work, the same as she would have got as a social
worker. The young Socialists would hire a larger hall, and
would publish a weekly paper, aimed at the high schools and
colleges of Angel City. Bunny was now free from the promise
he had made to Dr. Cowper, not to make propaganda in
Southern Pacific. And he was going to make it, you bet! The
students of that university and all others would learn something
about modern thought, and about the labor movement,
and about Socialism, and—well, not too much about Communism,
of course, because Dad would call that violence, and
it might be breaking the law!</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XVIII<br /> <span class="sub-head">THE FLIGHT</span></h1></div>

<h3>I</h3>

<p class="pindent">This summer of 1923 was a pleasant one for Bunny. To
be one of the editors of a little paper, and be able to say what
you thought, and print it week by week and distribute it, with
no Dean Squirge to take it away from you, and no police or
patriots to raid your office! To mail it to every one you knew,
and flatter yourself with the idea that they were reading it, and
being cured of their prejudices! Bunny had put all his former
class-mates on the mailing list of “The Young Student,” and in
the fall the “Ypsels” were going to sell it on the college
campuses, and maybe trouble would begin then, and they would
get some advertising free!</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad was slowly picking up. He read the little paper every
week, a sort of loving censorship. But it wasn’t needed, because
Rachel, orthodox Socialist party member, was wasting no space
on the left wingers. When these extremists got hold of Bunny
and cajoled him into thinking that both sides ought to have
a hearing, Rachel would say, what was the matter with their
getting out a paper of their own? So here was Bunny, being
“bossed” as usual—and by a woman! It was almost as bad as
being married!</p>

<p class="pindent">Another source of relief—Vee was not quarreling with him
so much. She had been so shocked by his mad proposal to go
off and get himself killed in heavy industry, that she was glad
to compromise and take half his time, and let Rachel and “The
Young Student” have the other half. Vee was working hard
on her new picture, “The Golden Couch,” telling about an
American darling of luxury who fell into the toils of a fake
prince from some Balkan country. To play the part they had
got a real Roumanian prince, who had most charming manners,
and was willing to devote himself to Vee at all times when
Bunny was busy with his Socialist Jewess.</p>

<p class="pindent">Also they were getting agreeable letters from Bertie, who
had been transported to heaven. Such a brilliant world, with
such important things going on! She had lunched with the
Prince de This, and dined with the Duchesse de That. Why
wouldn’t Dad and Bunny come over and visit them—Bunny
might make a really brilliant marriage. Dad chuckled; the idea
of him going to Paree and trying to polly voo Francy!</p>

<p class="pindent">The blackmailers were busy, of course; but since his illness
Dad had left all that trouble to Verne. Congress was on vacation,
which meant a partial respite; the senatorial reds might
denounce the oil leases in their home states, but the papers no
longer had to print what they said. A curious superstition,
that when things were said in Congress, even the most respectable
newspapers found it necessary to mention them. Such
things brought politics into disrepute with business men.</p>

<p class="pindent">The drilling of the Sunnyside tract was under way. A
dozen wells were flowing, and justifying all that had been
expected of them. Sometimes Dad was driven to the office, but
most of the time the bright young executives would come out
to his home, and sit in the den and get their orders. Such
clean-cut efficient young men, with all their faculties concentrated
upon getting oil out of the ground! No visions tormenting
them, no strains of music haunting them, no hesitations, no
uncertainties, never a doubt that to get oil out of the ground
was the purpose of man’s life! So they kept their wits about
them, and mastered their departments, and increased their prestige
and their salaries; and when any one of them had taken
his departure, there was an unuttered sadness between Dad
and his son. Why couldn’t Bunny have been like young Simmons,
or young Heimann, or young Bolling?</p>

<h3>II</h3>

<p class="pindent">The doctor had said that Dad must not think about business
more than two hours a day; so Bunny would tempt him for
a stroll, a very slow one, and perhaps they would hear a sermon
of Eli’s as they walked along the street, and that never failed
to divert Dad’s mind and set him to chuckling. He took a kind
of malicious delight in watching the glory sweep of the Third
Revelation; by proving that the masses were boobs, you made
it all right to take their naval reserves! Dad subscribed to a
little paper issued by one of the rival religious showmen of the
town, full of denunciations of Eli and exposures of his trickery.</p>

<p class="pindent">The regular churches were jealous of this new Revelation,
which had burst so rudely upon them. Eli was an upstart and
a mountebank, and Tom Poober, the clerical rival, declared that
he faked a lot of his alleged cures, he hired people to stand
up and tell how their crippled limbs had healed and their cancers
had disappeared. Also, Eli’s followers had not been willing to
give up their customs of rolling and talking in tongues, and
Eli had had to build for them a number of sound-proof rooms
in the Tabernacle, where these rites were carried on. “Tarrying
rooms,” they were called, because you went there to “tarry
with Jesus”; and when things got going, you would see a hundred
men and women rolling on the floor, pawing one another,
tearing off their clothing; you would see a woman jerking her
head back, or leaping several feet at a time, here and there,
exactly like a chicken with its head cut off. The orgies would
end with a mass of human creatures piled into a heap, wriggling
and writhing, amid a smell of sweat that would make you ill.</p>

<p class="pindent">The Reverend Poober would print such things, and send
newsboys to sell the paper in front of the Tabernacle; the newsboys
would be fallen upon and beaten, and the police would fail
to arrest the assailants, or having arrested them, would turn
them loose. Were the politicians of Angel City afraid of the
power of this stuffed prophet? Tom Poober would ask in
large capital letters, and Dad would chuckle—in the mood of
that Western pioneer who came home and found his wife in a
hand-to-hand conflict with a bear, and rested his gun upon the
fence and took a seat and called, “Go it, woman! Go it, bear!”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was another charge—the prophet was said to be fond
of the company of handsome young women. That was a cruel
thing to hint, because Eli was strenuous in denouncing fornications
and adulteries, as much so as any Hebrew prophet of the
First Revelation. Dad chuckled and speculated; until it happened
one day that he and Bunny took a long drive, and stopped
at an unfrequented beach, looking for a place for Bunny to get
a swim. There was a cheap hotel on the waterfront, and coming
out of the door, whom should they run into but Eli Watkins,
with an indubitably handsome young woman! The young
woman walked quickly on, and Eli exchanged greetings with
Dad and Bunny, and then excused himself. Dad stood for a
minute, looking after the couple and saying, “By golly!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Then he turned and went into the hotel, and to the man at
the desk remarked, in a casual tone, “I met that gentleman, but
his name has slipped my memory—the one that just went out.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s Mr. T. C. Brown, of Santa Ynez.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Is he staying here”?</p>

<p class="pindent">“He just checked out.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad began to glance over the hotel register, and there he
read, as big as life, “T. C. Brown and wife, Santa Ynez.” And
in the crude scrawly handwriting of Eli Watkins, which Dad
had at home upon several business letters! It was all Dad
could do to keep from bursting out laughing. By golly, if he
were to tip off Tom Poober to the contents of that hotel register,
he would knock the Third Revelation as high as a kite!</p>

<h3>III</h3>

<p class="pindent">President Harding died; and Dan Irving wrote Bunny the
gossip from Washington. The old gentleman had been reluctant
to take the oil men’s money, so Barney Brockway and his
“fixer” had fixed things for him—they had “carried an account”
in a Wall Street brokerage, a method whereby business men
make life comfortable for statesmen. Every now and then
they would bring the old gentleman a bundle of liberty bonds
which they had “won” for him. And now his widow had found
several hundred thousand dollars of these bonds in a safe
deposit box, and become convinced that he had meant them for
another woman, and was in such a fury about it that she was
telling all her friends, and giving great glee to Washington
gossip.</p>

<p class="pindent">And then the new president: a little man whose fame was
based upon the legend that he had put down a strike of the
Boston policemen, when the truth was that he had been hiding in
his hotel room, with a black eye presented to him by the mayor
of the city. His dream in life, as reported by himself, was to
keep a store, and that was the measure of his mentality. He
didn’t know what to say, and so the newspapers called him a
“strong silent man.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny didn’t publish much of this, because Rachel didn’t
approve of gossip. But they did publish some of the inside
facts about professionalism in college athletics, and when this
was offered for sale on the campuses, the athletic students
mobbed the “Ypsels.” But even the mobbers read the paper,
and Bunny was having the time of his life.</p>

<p class="pindent">In December the new Congress assembled, and an alarming
state of affairs was revealed; the “insurgents” had the balance
of power in the Senate, and their first move was to combine
with the Democrats and order an investigation of the oil leases.
This news fell upon Dad and Verne like a thunderbolt—their
scouts in Washington had failed to foresee such a calamity, and
Verne had to jump into his private car and hurry to Washington,
to see what a last-minute expenditure of cash might do.
Apparently it didn’t do much, for the committee proceeded to
put witnesses on the stand and “grill” them—a terrifying newspaper
phrase, but really it was not so much a culinary operation
as an explosion, with the debris scattered all over the front
pages of the press.</p>

<p class="pindent">The thing was too sensational to be held down any longer.
It didn’t read like politics, but like some blood and thunder
movie. Secretary Crisby hadn’t had the sense to put his oil
money into liberty bonds and hide them in a safe deposit box—he
had gone like a fool and paid off a big mortgage on his
Texas ranch, and bought a lot of stuff that everybody could
see; he had even told the foreman of his ranch that he had got
sixty-eight thousand dollars from Vernon Roscoe, and the
foreman had told one of the ranch-hands. Now the senators
put the badly rattled foreman on the witness stand, and he
had to explain that it was all a misunderstanding—what he had
said was not “sixty-eight thousand dollars,” but “six or eight
cows.” You can see how easy it was for such a mistake to
happen!</p>

<p class="pindent">But then it was shown that Secretary Crisby had deposited
a hundred thousand dollars in his bank one day; and where
had he got that? A great Washington newspaper publisher
came forward to declare that he had loaned his dear friend
the secretary that little sum for no particular reason. The
great publisher then went off to Florida to spend the winter,
and he was sick and couldn’t possibly be disturbed. But the
perverse committee sent one of its members to Florida and put
the publisher on the witness stand, and in the presence of half
a hundred newspaper reporters pinned him down and made
him admit that his story had been a friendly fairy-tale.</p>

<p class="pindent">Where had the hundred thousand come from? The scandalmongers
were busy, of course—fellows like Dan Irving running
to the committee with tales of what Washington gossip was
saying. So the committee grabbed “Young Pete” O’Reilly,
and “grilled” him, and made him admit that he had carried the
trifling sum of a hundred thousand dollars to Secretary Crisby
in a little black bag—more stuff right out of a movie! And
then they grabbed “Old Pete,” and he claimed it was just a
loan—he had got a note, but he couldn’t recollect where the
note was. He finally produced a signature which he said had
been cut off the note, but he couldn’t tell what had become of
the rest of it; he was very careless about notes, and thought he
had given this one to his wife, who had misplaced all but the
signature. And these scandalous details about the leaders of
the most fashionable society in Washington and Angel City!
The newspapers published it, even while they shivered at their
own irreverence.</p>

<h3>IV</h3>

<p class="pindent">Every day Dad was getting long telegrams from Verne,
not coming direct, of course, but addressed to Mrs. Bolling,
the wife of the trusty young executive; they were signed “A.
H. Dory”—a play upon Dad’s favorite formula, “All hunkydory.”
They were not the sort of telegrams that a doctor would
have picked out for the soothing of his patient’s nerves; no,
they kept the patient in a fever of anxiety—how many, many
times he wished that he had listened to the warnings of his
young idealist, and kept clear of this mess of corruption! But
of course Bunny couldn’t say that now; he could only read the
news and wait and wonder at what hour the thunderbolt would
descend upon them.</p>

<p class="pindent">Annabelle’s new picture was done, “A Mother’s Heart,” and
there was going to be an especially grand premiere, and Bunny
was to take Vee, of course, and Dad was to take Aunt Emma,
and everything would be all hunkydory for that one night at
least. Bunny came home from reading the proofs of the next
issue of the paper, and there in the entrance hall he found
his aunt waiting for him, her hands shaking with excitement,
and her teeth chattering. “Oh, Bunny! The most dreadful
thing! They’re trying to arrest your father!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Arrest him?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Men are after him—right in front of the house! You’ve
got to get away without being seen—they’ll follow you—oh,
I’m so frightened—oh, please, please, be careful! Don’t let
them catch your father!”</p>

<p class="pindent">He managed to get the story, and it was really almost as
melodramatic as her wild words conveyed. Young Bolling, the
trusty executive, had been to the house a few minutes ago, looking
for Bunny with a message from Dad of the utmost urgency;
he had written it out, and Bunny read it: he was to drive in his
car, and make absolutely certain that he was not being followed—there
would be men trying to follow him, in order to trail
Dad. As soon as he had shaken off these men, he must leave
his car, which of course had his name on the license; he must
go to some automobile place where he was not known, and buy
a closed car under an assumed name; it must not be a new
car, because they might have to do very fast driving. Still
making sure that he was not being followed, Bunny must proceed
to the suburban town of San Pasqual, and at a certain
corner Dad would join him. Mr. Bolling had given Aunt
Emma five thousand dollars in bills, and then had gone away,
hoping that the men who were watching the house would follow
him.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny said a few words to comfort the poor old lady.
Nobody wanted to put Dad into jail, they just wanted to get him
on the witness stand, the way they had done the “Petes,” young
and old. Bunny threw a few clothes into an old suit-case, that
had no name or initials on it, and hurried out to his car. Sure
enough, there was another car just down the street, and when
Bunny started, this other started also. Bunny swung round half
a dozen corners, but the other car kept on his trail. He bethought
himself of the traffic jam in the heart of the city, which was at
its worst right now, between five and six in the evening. The
traffic was controlled by signals, with two or three officers at
the crowded corners, and it would be possible by dodging here
and there to get several cars between you and a pursuing car,
and sooner or later to get across just as the bell rang and compelled
your pursuer to wait.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny worked the trick, and shook off the other car; then
he left his own in a public garage for storage, and made the
purchase of a two-passenger closed car under the name of
“Alex H. Jones.” The dealers’ receipt would serve for a license
temporarily, and Bunny counted out eighteen of his hundred
dollar bills, and drove away. Half an hour later he was in the
town of San Pasqual, driving past the corner specified. He
passed it twice, and the second time Dad stepped out of a hotel,
and Bunny slowed up, and then away they went! “Anybody
following you?” were Dad’s first words, and Bunny said, “I
don’t think so, but we’ll make sure.” They swung round
several corners, and Dad kept watch through the rear window.
“All hunkydory,” he said, at last, and Bunny asked, “Where
are we going?” The answer was, “To Canada”; and Bunny,
who had been prepared for anything, took the boulevard that
led North out of San Pasqual.</p>

<p class="pindent">While he drove, Dad told him the news. The first thing,
Verne had skipped to Europe; at least, his steamer was sailing
today, and it was hoped he had not been caught. “A. H. Dory”
had telegraphed to Mrs. Bolling, advising her that it was absolutely
necessary for Mr. Paradise—that was Dad’s code name—to
meet his friends in Vancouver immediately, and he must start
tonight, otherwise he would be too late for the appointment.
Dad hadn’t needed any further hint; he had learned yesterday—though
he had kept the painful news from Bunny—that the
Senate investigators had got wind of that Canadian corporation,
and were planning to subpoena all its organizers. Undoubtedly
the subpoenas had been issued that day, and telegraphed to
Angel City, with instructions to the United States marshal to
serve them at once. Dad and young Bolling had made their
get-away from the office by means of a fire-escape—more movie
stuff, you see! And here they were, Alex H. Jones and Paul
K. Jones, driving all night on a rain-battered highway, not
daring to stop at any hotel, because a United States marshal
might be lurking in the lobby; not daring even to pass through
the big cities, for fear the all-seeing eye of their irate Uncle Sam
might be spying from a window!</p>

<h3>V</h3>

<p class="pindent">They got to Vancouver in a heavy snow-storm; and immediately
dropped their uncomfortable aliases, and put up at the
best hotel. Straightway, of course, the newspaper reporters
came running; and Dad said with his quiet dignity that it was all
rubbish about their being fugitives from the Senate investigation,
they were American business men who had come to British
Columbia to consider investments. That scandal in Washington
was nothing but cheap and silly politics, the leases had
been most advantageous to the government, and as for the
Canadian corporation, it had been an enterprise of great benefit
to Canada. Did Mr. Ross and his son plan to explore for oil
in British Columbia? asked the reporters, eagerly; and Dad
said that he had nothing to communicate as yet.</p>

<p class="pindent">Here they were: comfortable in the physical sense, but mentally
not at all so, in a city which to them was a frontier place,
with cold weather and nothing of interest. Yet Dad was likely
to be in exile for a long time; the new Congress would be in
session half a year, and the trouble-makers would certainly
keep the oil scandal going, so as to have something to use in
next fall’s presidential election. Dad sent telegrams to his
office, and wireless messages to Verne on board ship; and presently
came a reply from Verne requesting Dad to meet him in
London immediately.</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad had to go; and then, what about Bunny? He had his
sweetheart at home, and also his paper, so perhaps he should
return to Angel City. But Bunny said nonsense, it was out of
the question for Dad to cross a continent and an ocean in winter-time
alone. His son would go with him, and after they had
talked things out with Verne, they could go over to Paris, and
spend a while with Bertie, and meet those swell diplomatic
friends of hers. Then, if necessary, Bunny might come back
alone—they would see about that later.</p>

<p class="pindent">The old man was pitifully glad of this decision. Bunny was
all he had to care about now. In his secret heart he must have
been humiliated before his son, but he had to go on with the
pretense that he was a dignified business man, persecuted by
unscrupulous political enemies. He talked about the matter
very little with Bunny, but to other people he would discourse
for hours; this sudden talkativeness about his affairs was the
most pitiful of all signs of his weakening.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny wrote long letters to Vee, telling her the situation
and pledging his love; and to Rachel, turning over the paper to
her, and arranging for the thousand dollars a month to be paid
to her. Dad wrote long letters to his efficient young executives—thank
God for their efficiency right now! They would keep
in touch with him and Verne by cable; and Verne’s agents in
Washington would send the “low down” on the investigation.
Bunny arranged to get Dan Irving’s weekly letter, and the
various radical papers he was reading; so father and son would
be in position to carry on their controversy in Europe!</p>

<p class="pindent">They spent four days on a train crossing the snowy plains of
Canada. It was bitter cold outside, but snug and warm within,
and on the rear of the train was an observation car, made use
of by a score or two of business men, American and Canadian.
In an hour or two they had learned that the great J. Arnold
Ross was among them, and after that Dad held court, and told
his troubles to all and sundry. It was curious to Bunny to see
the class-consciousness of these men, an instant, automatic
reaction; every one of them was with Dad, every one knew
that the exposure was the work of malicious political disturbers,
and that the leases had been a good bargain for the
public. The savings that intelligent business men effected
always made up many times over for what profits the business
men took.</p>

<p class="pindent">When they got to Montreal, there was a palatial steamer
waiting, with several hundred wage-slaves of various sorts prepared
to serve them in return for a few hundred barrels of the
stolen oil. They went on board, and the steamer proceeded
down the St. Lawrence river; it stopped at Quebec, and there
were newspapers, and Bunny read that Federal agents had
raided a secret convention of the Workers’ party, and arrested
all the delegates. It was a highly sensational event, and the
Canadian papers gave full particulars—they too had this problem!
Their account gave the names of the criminals who had
been trapped, and one of them was Paul Watkins!</p>

<h3>VI</h3>

<p class="pindent">Not all the oil money in the world could make the winter
passage to England other than cold and stormy. Dad proved
to be a poor sailor, and so he was a forlorn object when he
got to Vernon Roscoe’s hotel in London. But Verne cheered
him up; yes, truly, Dad began to revive with the first thump
upon the back and the first boom of Verne’s voice in the hotel
lobby. “By Jees, the old skeezicks! I believe the reds have
got his nerve!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Nobody had got Verne’s nerve, you bet; he was sitting on
the top of the world! That investigation—shucks, that was a
circus stunt to entertain the yokels. It would blow over and be
forgotten in a few months—Verne quoted a chieftain of Tammany
Hall who had been up against the same kind of racket,
and said, “Dis is a nine day town. If yez kin stand de gaff
fer nine days, ye’re all right.” No, by Jees—and Verne gave
his partner another thump—they were getting the oil out of
Sunnyside, and the money was going into their bank accounts,
and not into anybody’s else, and they were going to have one
hell of a lark spending it. What was more, they were going to
turn the tables on those blankety-blank red senators—just let
Dad wait a few days, and he’d see some stuff that would get on
the front pages of the papers, even here in England!</p>

<p class="pindent">Jim Junior got his due share of back-slapping. The boy
Bolsheviki must take his old man around and show him some
of the sights of London; hadn’t he learned about ’em in the
history books—the places where men had had their heads
chopped off five hundred years ago, and such cheerful spectacles?
After the old man had got rested up, then Verne would
show him some oil propositions that would make his eyes pop
open. Verne hadn’t been losing any time—not he! He had
put five million into a project that was to reopen a great oil
field in Roumania that had been burned during the German
invasion, and it was a deal that would beat Sunnyside, and
Verne had got fifty-one percent and full control, and was going
to bring over a complete American outfit, and show those
gypsies or whatever they were what a real oil job looked like.
And now he was fighting with some of the British oil men over
the Persian situation, and Verne and the state department
between them were waking old John Bull from a long sweet
dream.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was a curious situation that was unveiled to Bunny here.
Vernon Roscoe was a fugitive from the oil investigating committee
of the Senate, but at the same time he was master of
the foreign policy of the United States government concerning
oil, and the ambassadors abroad and the secretary of state at
home behaved as his office boys. Of course there were other oil
men; Excelsior Pete and Victor and the rest of the Big Five
all had their agents, hundreds of them, abroad; but Verne was
so active, and had so much the best word in Washington, that
the rest had come to follow his lead. President Harding might
be dead, but his spirit lived on, and Verne and his crowd had
bought and paid for it.</p>

<p class="pindent">The American magnate came among these Britishers with
as much tact and grace as one of his long-horned steers from
the southwestern plains. He wasn’t going to put on any
society flummery, he was an old cattle-puncher from Oklahoma,
and if “Old Spats and Monocle,” as he called Great Britain’s
leading oil magnate, didn’t like him, by Jees he could lump him!
Bunny attended a banquet at which a group of the rivals sat
down together, and it seemed to Bunny that Verne was more
noisy and more slangy than even at his own dinner-table at the
Monastery. There was method in it, the younger man suspected;
Verne frightened these strangers with his wild western
airs, and that was the proper mood for negotiations! They had
needed our navy damn bad a few years ago, and had got it
free of charge, but they weren’t going to get it that way again,
and Verne was the feller to tell them so. The next time, it
would be the oil crowd’s say about the battleships—and the
same with the dollars, by Jees.</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a new deal in American diplomacy since the war.
The state department had taken charge of foreign investments
made by our bankers, and told them where to go and where to
stay away from. The bankers had to obey, because they never
knew when they might need the help of the marines to collect
their interest. What it meant in practice was that a few fighting
men like Vernon Roscoe could go to foreign business men
and say, let me in on this and give me a share of that, or you
can whistle for the next loan from Wall Street. The procedure
is known to all cattle men, they call it “horning in”; and after
a few of the Britishers had been “horned in on,” they learned
what the little fellows had learned back home—who were the
real masters of America!</p>

<h3>VII</h3>

<p class="pindent">Dad of course had no trace of interest in seeing the place
where men had had their heads chopped off five hundred years
ago; and Bunny tried it, and found that he didn’t have much
either. What Bunny wanted was to meet the men who were in
danger of having their heads chopped off now. There was a
great labor movement in England, with a well developed system
of workers’ education, supported by the old line leaders; also
a bunch of young rebels making war on it because of its lack
of clear revolutionary purpose. “The Young Student” had
been exchanging with the “Plebs,” and now Bunny went to see
these rebels, and soon was up to his ears in the British struggle—a
wonderful meeting at Albert Hall, and labor members of
Parliament and other interesting people to meet.</p>

<p class="pindent">A couple of papers published interviews with the young
oil prince who had gone in for “radicalism,” as the Americans
called it. And this brought an agonized letter from Bertie. She
had been begging them to come over to Paris and meet the
best people; but now, here was Bunny, six thousand miles away
from home, still making his stinks! Couldn’t he for God’s sake
stop to think what he was doing to his relatives? Eldon just
about to get a promotion, and here his brother-in-law coming
in and queering it all! You could see Bertie making a strong
moral effort on paper, controlling herself and patiently explaining
to her brother the difference between Europe and California.
People really took the red peril seriously over here, and Bunny
would find himself a complete social outcast. How could Eldon’s
superiors trust him in delicate matters of state policy, if they
knew that members of his family were in sympathy with the
murderous ruffians of Moscow?</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny replied that it was very sad indeed, but Bertie and
her husband had better repudiate him and not see him, for he
had no intention of failing to make acquaintance with the labor
and Socialist movements of the countries he visited. Having
got that off his chest, Bunny sat down to write for “The Young
Student” an account of all the red things he had seen and the
red people he had met so far.</p>

<p class="pindent">The little paper was coming, and Bunny was reading it from
the upper left hand corner of page one to the lower right hand
corner of page four, and finding it all good. Yes, Rachel
Menzies was going to make a real editor—a lot better one than
Bunny himself, he humbly decided. She had started a series
of papers called “Justice and the Student,” discussing the problems
of the younger generation. She saw it all so clearly, and
was so dignified and persuasive in manner—not angry, as the
young reds so easily got! Even Dad was impressed, yes, that
was a clever girl; you wouldn’t think it to look at her—but those
Jews were always smart.</p>

<p class="pindent">Also the labor press service was coming, with Dan Irving’s
Washington letter and other news from the oil scandal. And
very soon Bunny saw what Verne had meant by predicting the
collapse of the investigation. The whole power of the attorney-general’s
office had been turned against the insurgent senators.
Barney Brockway, backed against the wall, was fighting for the
life of himself and his “Ohio gang.” Secret service agents had
raided the offices of the senators conducting the investigation
and rifled their papers; they were raking up scandals against
these men, sending women to try to “get” them, preparing a
series of “frame-ups” in their home states—every trick they had
rehearsed on the Communists and the I. W. W. now applied
to the exposers of the oil steal. Presently they had one of the
senators under indictment; and just as Verne had predicted,
the big newspapers came to their senses, and took the crimes
of the oil men off the front page, and put the crimes of the
reds in their place.</p>

<p class="pindent">There was quite a bunch of “magnates” now in exile; Fred
Orpan, and John Groby, and all those who had formed the
Canadian corporation, and distributed two million dollars of
bribes in Washington. Dad and Bunny would lunch with them,
and they would have confidential telegrams, and it was curious
to watch their reactions. They all made a joke of it—“Hello,
old jailbird!” would be their greeting; but underneath they were
eaten with worry. Among other developments, the new President
was preparing to throw them overboard, in anticipation of
next fall’s elections. He, Cautious Cal, had never had any oil
stains on him—oh, no! oh, no! The oil men would jeer—the
little man had sat in the cabinet all the time the leases were being
put through, he had been the bosom friend of all of them. The
first time any of Verne’s crowd enjoyed the exposures was
when the Senate committee began digging into a file of telegrams
which showed the immaculate one as heavily smeared
as the other politicians; he had been sending secret messages,
trying to stave off the exposure, trying to save this one and
that. But now he was getting ready to kick their agents out of
the cabinet, and how they did despise him! “The little hop-toad,”
was Verne’s regular description of the Chief Magistrate
of his country!</p>

<h3>VIII</h3>

<p class="pindent">Dad didn’t get well as quickly as they had hoped. Apparently
the cold damp darkness of London was not good for him,
so Bunny took him to Paris. Bertie relented, and met them at
the station; even her husband risked his diplomatic career, and
everything was polite and friendly for a few hours. But then
the brother and sister got to arguing; Bertie wanted Bunny not
to investigate the Socialist movement of France, at least, and
Bunny said he had already promised Rachel an article about it.
There was a “youth” paper here that was on their exchange list,
and there was to be a Socialist meeting that very week which
Bunny was going to attend. Bertie said that settled it, he
would never meet the Prince de This and the Duchesse de That,
and Bunny was so ignorant, he didn’t know what he was missing.</p>

<p class="pindent">Paris was wet and cold also, and Dad had a cough, and sat
around in a hotel lobby and was so forlorn it made your heart
ache. He would let you drive him around, and would look at
public buildings—yes, it was very fine, a beautiful city; people
had been working on it a long while, we hadn’t had time to get
anything so good at home. But all the while you could see that
Dad didn’t really care about it; he didn’t like this strange people
with their jabber, the men looked like popinjays and the women
immoral, and people were always trying to pass off lead money
on you, and the food had fancy fixings so you couldn’t tell what
it tasted like, and why in the world Americans wanted to come
chasing over here was beyond Dad’s power to imagine.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was decided to take him to the Riviera till spring. And
here they were settled in a villa looking over the Mediterranean,
and there was sunshine at last, a pale copy of California. Bertie
came for a visit, and then Aunt Emma to keep house for them,
and it was a sort of a home. Aunt Emma and Bertie got along
beautifully, because the elder lady never failed to admire the
right things—oh, how perfectly lovely, how refined and elegant,
the most magnificent buildings, the most life-like paintings, the
most fashionable costumes! Aunt Emma would meet the Prince
de This and the Duchesse de That, and never injure the diplomatic
career of her nephew-in-law!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny got himself a tutor, and rapidly unlearned the French
he had acquired at Southern Pacific. Of course he had to pick
out a Socialist tutor, a weird-looking, moth-eaten young man
who did not seem to have had a square meal in many years—a
poet, he was reported to be. Other Socialists came round,
and a few Communists and Anarchists and Syndicalists and
hybrids of these; they wore loose ties, or none at all, and hair
hanging into their eyes, and looked to Dad and Aunt Emma as
if they were spying out the premises with intentions of burglary.
Even here there were radical meetings, on this Coast of
Gold, where the rich of Europe gambled and played; and poor
devils dangling always on the verge of starvation roused the
pity of a young American millionaire, who lived in luxury and
had a guilty conscience. When it was ascertained that he would
lend money, there were some to ask, and most of them were
frauds—but how was a young American millionaire to know?</p>

<p class="pindent">Aunt Emma had been escorted from Angel City by Dad’s
private secretary, bringing two big brief cases full of reports
and letters. And so Dad was busy and happy for a while, he
studied these papers, and wrote long instructions, and sent
cablegrams in code, and fretted because some of the replies were
not clear. Yes, it was a hard matter to carry on an oil business
six thousand miles away. They were putting down test wells
in the north half of Sunnyside, and you wanted to be there to
examine the cores. Why, the damn fools had even failed to
send the full text of the geologists’ reports!</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad wasn’t well enough to go into the big new deals with
Verne; he must rest first. But the rest didn’t help him, because
he fretted for something to do, and for his secretary to do. To
go driving up and down the same coast was monotonous; while
to sit at tea-parties and chatter with fashionable idlers—Dad
had unutterable contempt for these people, they weren’t even
crude and healthy, like the rich in California, no, they were
rotten to the core, vicious and terrible people. The ex-mule-driver
took one look into their gilded gambling palace, that was
famed all over the world, and he went outside and spit on the
steps—faugh! He was even willing to consider Bunny’s argument,
that such people were made by generations of hereditary
privilege; let things go as they were going in California, and
Dad’s grand-children would be giving this crowd lessons in
depravity. For that matter, some of them were giving it now
right here on the Riviera—rich Americans setting the pace in
frivolity and ostentation.</p>

<p class="pindent">Anyhow, said Dad, give him Americans! He wandered out
and found a retired department-store proprietor from Des
Moines, just as desperately bored as himself, and the two
would sit for hours on the esplanade and tell about their business
and their troubles. Presently there was added a banker
from South Dakota, and then a farmer who had struck oil in
Texas. The women folks insisted on these fool European tours,
and all the fathers could do was to get off by themselves and
grumble at the bills. But here were four of them, and they
gave one another courage, and fixed up a little place to pitch
horseshoes—and in their shirtsleeves, by heck, just as if they
had never made the mistake of making too much money and
ruining their family-life!</p>

<h3>IX</h3>

<p class="pindent">The weather grew hot, and they went back to Paris. Dad
liked it better now, he could stroll on the boulevards, and sit in
those outdoor cafes, where you sipped things to drink; there
was always a waiter who understood English, and maybe he
had been in God’s country and would chat about it. There were
numbers of Americans to meet; Dad found the express company
office where they got their mail, and he even ran into people
from Angel City there! The newspapers from home came
twice a week, and lasted a long time.</p>

<p class="pindent">Also, friends turned up—Annabelle Ames, for example, to
attend the London premiere of “A Mother’s Heart,” and to
visit Roumania with Verne, and also Constantinople. It
appeared that Verne was backing the Turkish government, as a
means of squeezing a bigger share of the Mosul oil out of the
British. A funny thing—Excelsior Pete, Verne’s bitterest rival
at home, had offered to take him in on these concessions. Yes,
you were getting something when you bought the leading cabinet
members of the United States government! Excelsior
Pete’s action showed how much real importance they attributed
to the oil scandals, and to the new President’s public attitude.</p>

<p class="pindent">Annabelle was a business woman, and understood these matters,
which made her a comfort to Dad. She pleaded with
Bunny, in her gentle, loving way—it was all right for him to
set up new standards in business, but was it fair to judge his
father by them? Certainly no big business men followed such
standards. And surely America was entitled to its share of the
world’s oil; but there was no way to take it from these greedy
foreign rivals, except to mass the power of the government
against them.</p>

<p class="pindent">Annabelle had lots of news from home. Not gossip, she
didn’t tell mean things; but there was one story she couldn’t
help telling, it was so funny, and it caused Dad many a chuckle.
A sudden fit of modesty had struck the O’Reilly family; they
had taken down all those bronze and brass signs that had
announced their progress about the world! No name on their
front gates, none on the “Conqueror,” their yacht, none on the
private car with its Circassian walnut and blue satin upholstery!
No longer was it a glorious thing to be an oil magnate’s wife—some
fanatic might throw a bomb at you!</p>

<p class="pindent">Congress had adjourned for the summer, and Verne was
going back. But he wanted Dad to stay for a while, because
that Canadian corporation was the most vulnerable of all the oil
men’s actions; it had never done anything except to distribute
that two million dollars of bribes. It was more than ever
important to keep the story down, because the government was
proceeding to bring suits for the return of all the naval reserves.
That would tie up the profits in the courts—all that good money,
by Jees, it was terrible!</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad would stay, of course; and Bunny would have to stay
with him. To make matters easier, the great Schmolsky came
along, fresh from the job of buying most of the great German
moving picture stars—another step in the process of taking
over the industry. Annabelle appealed to him, and he was a
good sport, he said yes, it was a damn shame the way old Jim
had been treated, and it was fine of the kid to stick by him—the
Jews are strong for the family; so Schmolsky would arrange
several premieres for “The Golden Couch” in Europe, and Vee
might spend a long holiday with her Bunny-rabbit. Lest
Schmolsky should forget about the matter, Annabelle made
him dictate a cablegram right then; so Bunny saw a demonstration
of what it means to have influential friends! It was
good business as well as good nature, of course; because, when
the world’s darlings have these glory-progresses, a publicity
man precedes them from one great capital to the next, and the
news of the crowds and the clamor is cabled back to the United
States, and takes the front page every time.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny could salve his conscience, because nobody needed
him at home. The magazine was getting along all right. Fifty-two
issues had been published, more than half of them of
Rachel’s own editing; it was something to count upon, the same
as the sunrise—and it was the most interesting paper in the
world!</p>

<p class="pindent">Also Paul was out of immediate trouble. One of the nineteen
men arrested at the Communist convention had been convicted
and had appealed; the cases of the rest were held up
until that one was decided, and meantime Paul and the others
were out on bail. Ruth wrote Bunny the news; it was a torment
to have a twenty year jail sentence hanging over you,
but they were getting used to it. Ruth was going on with her
nurse’s work, and getting along fine. Paul had gone on a long
journey—she was not at liberty to say where.</p>

<p class="pindent">But the capitalist press was at liberty, and did so. From
time to time you would read in the French papers items of news
about Russia, made, of course, to sound as hateful as possible.
Soon after getting Ruth’s letter, the papers reported that there
had been a dispute among the American Communists as to tactics,
and the two factions had carried their case to the chiefs of
the Third International. There were half a dozen leaders of
the American party now in Moscow, and one of those named
was Paul Watkins, under indictment at home for participation
in an illegal convention.</p>

<h3>X</h3>

<p class="pindent">Several interesting events came along, to keep them busy
in their exile. First, Aunt Emma fell in love; yes, by golly,
when it comes to such things, you jist never can tell what will
happen to either ladies or gentlemen! It was a respectable
elderly hardware merchant from Nebraska, who was occupying
his leisure collecting cameos. Maybe Aunt Emma reminded
him of one; anyhow, after beauing her around for several
months, he suddenly popped the question, and they had a quiet
family wedding, and went off on a honeymoon—to Nebraska!</p>

<p class="pindent">It left Dad quite lonesome; but presently he hunted up an
adventure for himself, and that was stranger still—you couldn’t
have guessed it in a million years. SPOOKS!! It happened
that Bunny went off one evening to a meeting at which the
Socialists and the Communists engaged in violent warfare, as
appeared to be their custom in Paris; and when he got back,
he found that Dad was not in his room. Next morning the old
man told about it—hesitatingly, with not a little embarrassment.
Just what did Bunny think about Spiritualism? Bunny said he
didn’t think at all, he didn’t know; and Dad revealed that he
had had an amazing experience—a long talk last night with
grandma!</p>

<p class="pindent">Holy smoke! said Bunny; and Dad said yes, he might well
be surprised, but there was jist no getting away from it. She
had told him all about his childhood, described the ranch where
they had lived, and asked all about her paintings, what had he
done with that one of the Germans drinking out of steins, and
did he still have the one of the mansion with the fountain in
front and the carriage with the two horses and the lady and
gentleman sitting in it? She had called him “Little Jim,” and it
was all so real, it had made tears come into Dad’s eyes.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny wanted to know, where had this happened, and Dad
told him, there was a lady living in this hotel, Mrs. Olivier—she
was a lady from Boston who had been married to a Frenchman,
and her husband had died a year or two ago. Dad had got to
talking with her, and she had told him about being a Spiritualist,
and how she had a famous medium who gave seances in her
rooms here in the hotel, and she had invited Dad to attend, and
that was the way of it. Most amazing things had happened,
there had been horns floating in the air, and voices coming out
of them, and lights flickering about; then the ghosts had
appeared, and finally this old lady ghost, who had asked for
“Little Jim,” and started right off to tell these things that had
taken Dad’s breath away. How could a medium possibly have
known such things?</p>

<p class="pindent">Well, here was Dad with something to occupy his time! Of
course he went to the next seance, and the next; very soon he
was learning all the patter of the Spiritualists, taking it as
seriously as a religion. You could see how it was—he had
got along without any religion, so long as he was well and busy,
but now that he was old and tired and sick, he craved something
to lean on. He was shame-faced about it, afraid his son would
ridicule him. But after all, did Bunny know any reason why
the soul might not survive after death? Bunny didn’t, and
thereupon Dad invited him to go to a seance. Obviously, this
was something more important than Socialism. If it was really
true that we lived forever, why then it would be easy to endure
any temporary discomfort, it was hardly worth arguing about
such things as money. This from J. Arnold Ross!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny, who always tried to oblige, went to a seance, and
witnessed the strange phenomena. He knew that such things
can be done by sleight of hand, and that he had no way of telling
the difference; no chance was given in this company, made
up of believers in a state of emotional exaltation. So one session
was enough, and he went back to the Socialists. But let
Dad be a Spiritualist if it made him happy!</p>

<p class="pindent">Not so Bertie, who found out about it, and went into a
regular tantrum. What did Bunny mean by letting his father
fall into such hands? It was the worst kind of swindling in the
world! And that woman, Mrs. Olivier, it was perfectly obvious
what her scheme was—she wanted to marry Dad! Here Bertie
and Bunny had worked all their lives to help him accumulate a
fortune and save it—and a designing adventuress would jump
in and grab the money, and Bunny hadn’t even sense enough
to know what was happening! Never had he seen his sister so
mad in her whole life—she called him a fool seven times running—when
he said that the Spiritualist widow might have her
share, if only she could help the poor old man to find happiness.</p>

<h3>XI</h3>

<p class="pindent">Then another strange affair for them to discuss: one you
would have found still harder to guess! The American newspapers
in Paris published a despatch from Angel City, setting
forth that Eli Watkins, self-styled prophet of religion, was
believed to be drowned. He had gone swimming at the beach,
leaving his clothing in a hotel room, and had never been seen
since; a search was being made for the body. That was all the
news for a time; and Dad shook his head, and said, golly, what
a strange thing—a man whose God had saved so many others,
but couldn’t save His own prophet! What would become of
that big Tabernacle, that had been Eli’s personal property?</p>

<p class="pindent">Then the New York papers came; and later on, the papers
from Angel City, with the story spread all over the front page
day after day. The body of Eli could not be found. The people
of the temple employed divers—they had searchlights sweeping
the water at night, and thousands of the faithful patrolling
the sands, holding revival services there, weeping and praying
to God to give them back their beloved leader in his green
bathing suit. This went on for a week, for two weeks; and it
was puzzling, because the longest time a body could stay in the
sea without floating was nine days, and never before had it
happened that a drowned body had failed to be washed ashore.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then, more and more amazing, there began to be rumors in
the papers—they were afraid to say anything direct, but they
hinted, and quoted others who hinted—Eli was possibly not
drowned; Eli had been seen here, he had been seen there—and
always in the company of a certain young woman, whom rumor
declared to have been the keeper of the sacred robes in the
Tabernacle. Of course, the first time Dad saw one of those
hints, he remembered what he and Bunny had seen that day at
the beach hotel, and he went up into the air. “By God, that
fellow’s playing a trick! He’s gone off on a spree with a
woman!”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a thrill for you! Dad talked about it for hours—it
almost drove the spooks out of his mind! It was no joking
matter, because in the course of the search for Eli’s body two
men had lost their lives—one diver had been taken with pneumonia,
and a member of the Tabernacle, seeing what he thought
was a body, had swam out too far and gone down. And here
was Dad with the key to the mystery! Was it his duty to cable
the facts to the Reverend Poober?</p>

<p class="pindent">More sensations yet—the people at the Tabernacle began
getting letters from kidnappers, who alleged that they had taken
Eli in his green bathing suit, and had him in hiding, and
demanded half a million dollars ransom for him! What was
that? Nobody in Angel City could be sure. Had the prophet
really been kidnapped? Or was it true that he was driving
over the state, in company with Miss X, as the newspapers
referred to the former keeper of the sacred robes? One of
the funniest aspects of the scandal was that various young
couples who had gone off on love-expeditions in motor-cars—a
favorite diversion of the well-to-do—now found themselves
in an embarrassing situation; all over the state newspaper
reporters and police officials were looking for Eli and Miss X,
and woe to any tall blond man who happened to register at a
hotel with a girl and no marriage certificate!</p>

<p class="pindent">The denouement, when it finally came, was so sensational
that it got itself cabled, and thus spared Dad a tedious wait.
Thirty-five days after Eli’s disappearance, some fishermen, rowing
in a harbor several hundred miles from Angel City, encountered
a man swimming to shore, and picked him up; and behold,
it was a tall blond man in a green bathing suit—in short, it was
the prophet! The story he told was that, finding himself being
carried out to sea, he had prayed to the Lord, and the Lord had
heard his prayer, and had sent three angels to hold him up in
the water. The name of one of these angels was Steve, and
the second was a lady angel, whose name was Rosie, and the
third was a Mexican angel, and his name was Felipe. These
angels had taken turns holding onto the shoulder-straps of Eli’s
green bathing suit; and when he grew faint, one of them would
fly away and bring him food. They had upheld him, even while
he slept, quite peacefully in the water. For the entire period of
thirty-five days Eli had been thus alternately swimming and
sleeping. The devil had come, with wings of flame, and driven
the good angels away, and bound Eli’s hands behind him so that
he had nearly drowned. But he had prayed to the Lord, and
the angels had floated him to a rusty old can, and held it while
he rubbed his bonds against the sharp edges, and severed the
bonds and was able to swim again.</p>

<p class="pindent">So here was the prophet, none the worse for his adventure;
and when he had landed on the shore, and got some clothing,
here came the reporters hot-foot—for there have not been so
many miracles in these skeptical recent days, and this was an
indubitable one. Crowds of people swarmed about the prophet,
they sang hosannas, and strewed his path with flowers, and
when he got back to Angel City, you just couldn’t imagine the
excitement—fifty thousand people at the railroad station, it
beat anything that even the greatest movie stars had achieved.
And when he got to the Tabernacle, there were his followers
falling on their knees and weeping for joy, because the Lord
had answered their prayers and given them back their prophet;
six times a day the vast auditorium was packed, and outside a
park was filled with people, and Eli’s mighty bellow was conveyed
by a dozen loud-speakers, and men and women fell down
at the sound and shouted “Praise the Lord!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Of course there were skeptics, people with the devil in their
hearts who refused to believe Eli’s story, and persisted in talking
about a blue-colored automobile driven by a good-looking
girl, having a heavily veiled man wearing goggles in the seat
beside her. They talked about signatures on hotel-registers,
and handwriting experts, and other such obscenities; but all
that made no difference to the glory-shouters at the Tabernacle,
which was packed all day and all night, as never before in the
history of religions. Over and over Eli would tell his story, full
of the most convincing details—why, he even told how the
angels’ wings had swished, and sometimes splashed water into
his face; he told the very words the angels had spoken to him.
Said the prophet, if God in His Omnipotence could keep Jonah
three days in the belly of a whale, and Shadrach, Meshach and
Abednego in the burning fiery furnace, why could he not keep
Eli Watkins afloat on the sea? It is obvious that no one could
answer that.</p>

<p class="pindent">And then came an incident which settled the matter, completing
the glory of the Third Revelation. Eli happened to look
inside his green bathing suit, and what should he find but a
snow-white feather! He recognized it, of course—a proof of
his story, left there by the mercy of the Lord! When this
fresh miracle was announced, the hosannas of the faithful shook
the roof; and presently the angel’s feather was mounted in a
glass case, and set up behind the place where Eli preached, and,
such was the Lord’s mercy, whoever even looked upon this relic,
was instantly cured of all his ailments and had his sins forgiven—yes,
even the most deadly sin of fornication!</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XIX<br /> <span class="sub-head">THE PENALTY</span></h1></div>

<h3>I</h3>

<p class="pindent">The billboards of Paris broke into universal ecstasy:
“Schmolsky-Superba Présente l’Etoile Américaine, Viola
Tracy, dans La Couche d’Or, Cinéma-Mélodrame de la Société
en Huit Reels.” There were pages in the newspapers, “Premiere
Production sur le Continent d’Europe”—Schmolsky was
doing the job in style. “L’Etoile” herself was coming, all the
way from California; and Bunny motored to Havre to meet her,
and oh, how happy they were, a second honeymoon, with the old
disharmonies forgotten. He drove her back to Paris—no,
almost to Paris, she must board a train outside the city and
make her entrance according to schedule announced in the
newspapers. There were the shouting thousands, the cameras,
and the reporters, including those whose duty it would be to
cable the stirring news back to New York and Angel City.</p>

<p class="pindent">The world grows one, and it is the “cinéma-mélodrame de
la Société” that is doing it—which is to say the world grows
American. The premiere here in Paris was the same as a
premiere in Hollywood, except that the crowd made more noise,
and sought to embrace its idol, actually imperilling the idol’s
life. There was a double reason for excitement, because the
man who had played the leading part was no common movie
actor, but a real prince from Roumania, who had been visiting
in Southern California, and had yielded to the wiles of Schmolsky
and become a star for a night. Now here he was in person,
on his way home to Roumania—having traveled on the train
and the steamer with Vee, so Bunny learned. A tall, lean young
man, not very handsome, but used to attention; courteous, but
easily bored, wearing a quizzical smile, and reluctant to be serious—until
he heard Bunny express some sympathy with the
murderous and blasphemous reds! After that, he preferred the
company of Bunny’s sister.</p>

<p class="pindent">When the Paris premiere was over, Dad got him a touring
car of royal proportions, and they motored to Berlin, Bunny
driving, with Vee by his side, and Dad on the back seat with
his secretary and a chauffeur for emergencies. It was all just
as grand as their tour to New York; perfect roads, beautiful
scenery, humble peasantry standing cap in hand and awe-stricken,
servants rushing to wait upon them at every stop. All
Europe owes us money, and this is how it pays.</p>

<p class="pindent">And then Berlin—“Erste Auffuehrung in Deutschland,
Schmolsky-Superba ankuendigt,” etc. And the crowds and the
cameras and the reporters—the world was one. This had been
enemy country less than six years ago; but did any ex-soldiers
in uniform take station at the theatre entrance, and forbid
American films to set too high a standard for the native product?
They did not; and Bunny smiled, remembering his remark
to Schmolsky, “Vae victis!” and the latter’s reply, “Huh?”</p>

<p class="pindent">They went on to Vienna. It is a poor city now, and hardly
repays the advertising; but there is still magic in the name, and
it counts with the newspapers. So here was another premiere,
less noisy but more genial. Vee and her lover were a little bored
now; she had had the last great “kick” that she could get out
of life. When a star has had her continental tour, and has got
tired of it, she is an old-timer, blasée and world-weary, and life
from then on is merely one thing after another.</p>

<p class="pindent">The person with gift of perennial childhood was Dad. He
enjoyed each premiere as if he had never seen the others, and
he would have liked to go on to Bucharest, where her majesty
the queen—herself a genius at advertising—was to attend the
first showing, in honor of Prince Marescu. But another attraction
kept Dad in Vienna—the spooks had followed him! His
friend, Mrs. Olivier had given him a letter to a wonderful
medium, and they went to a seance, and Vee was told all about
the patent medicine vendor who had raised her in a wagon—the
very phrases this man had used to the crowd. By golly, if it
was a trick, it was certainly a clever one!</p>

<h3>II</h3>

<p class="pindent">There was only one cloud on this second honeymoon, and
Bunny kept it hidden in his own soul. There were “youth”
papers in both Berlin and Vienna, and he considered himself
bound to call at their offices and invite the rebel editors to lunch,
and send home letters for Rachel to publish. In Vienna was a
paper in the English language devoted to the defense of political
prisoners; it was a Communist paper, but so well camouflaged
that Bunny didn’t realize the fact, and anyhow, he would have
wished to meet the editors. He was still making his pitiful
attempt to understand both sides—even here in Central Europe,
where the Socialists and the Communists had many times been
at open war.</p>

<p class="pindent">In this obscure office in a working-class part of the city
Bunny came upon a ghastly experience. There was exhibited to
him a creature that had once been a young man, but now was
little more than a skeleton covered with a skin of greenish-yellow.
It had only one eye and one ear, and it could not
speak because its tongue had been pulled out or cut off, and
most of its front teeth had been extracted, and its cheeks were
pitted with holes made by cigarettes burned into it. Likewise
all the creatures’ finger-nails had been torn out, and its hands
burned with holes; the men in the office bared its shirt, and
showed Bunny how the flesh had been ripped and torn by lashes
this way and that, like cross-hatchings in a pen and ink drawing.</p>

<p class="pindent">This was a prisoner escaped from a Roumanian dungeon,
and these scars represented the penalty of refusal to betray his
comrades to the White Terror. Here in this office were photographs
and letters and affidavits—for this kind of thing was
being done to thousands of men and women in Roumania. The
government was in the hands of a band of ruling class thugs,
who were stealing everything in sight, selling the natural
resources of the country; one of the biggest of Roumanian oil
fields had just been leased to an American syndicate, possibly
Comrade Ross had heard of that? And Comrade Ross said
that he had. He didn’t add that his father was in on the deal!</p>

<p class="pindent">This victim of the White Terror was from Bessarabia, a
province taken from Russia under the blessed principle of self-determination.
It was inhabited by Russian peasants, and the
natural struggles of these people for freedom were met by
slaughtering or torturing to death not merely everyone who
revolted, but everyone who expressed sympathy with the revolt.
Nor was this a sporadic thing, it was the condition prevailing
all along the Russian border, a thousand miles from the Baltic
to the Black Sea. All these provinces and countries, inhabited
by Russian peasants, had been taken from the reds and given
to the whites. And so you had this situation—on the Eastern
side of the line the peasants had the land and the government,
they were free men and women, making a civilization of
workers; while on the other side they were serfs at the mercy
of landlords, robbed of the fruits of their toil, and beaten or
shot if they ventured a murmur. It was impossible to prevent
peasants from one side crossing to the other; and the contrast
between the two civilizations was so plain that no child could
fail to understand it. So the class struggle went on all the
time, a hideous civil war, of which no word was allowed to leak
to the outside world.</p>

<p class="pindent">Left to themselves, this landlord aristocracy could not survive
a year. But they had world capital behind them; they
got the munitions with which to do the slaughtering, or the
money to make the munitions, from American big business.
Yes, it was America which kept alive this White Terror, in
order to collect interest on the debts, and to come in and buy up
the country—the railroads, the mines, the oil fields, even the
great castles and landed estates. Would not Comrade Ross
tell the American people what bloody work their money was
doing?</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny went away with the question on his conscience.
Would he tell, or wouldn’t he? Would he begin by telling his
darling of the world? Would he mention that the young Prince
Marescu, whom she so greatly admired, was the son of one of
the bloodiest of these ruling class thugs?</p>

<p class="pindent">All the time Bunny was driving his darling through winding
passes amid the glorious snow-covered mountains of Switzerland,
he was not happy as it was his duty to be. He would
have long periods of brooding, and she would ask, what was the
matter, and he would evade. But then she would pin him down—being
shrewd, like most women where love is concerned.
“Is it those reds you’ve been visiting?” He said, “Yes, dear,
but let’s not talk about it—it isn’t going to make any difference
to us.” She answered, ominously, “It is going to make all the
difference in the world to us!”</p>

<h3>III</h3>

<p class="pindent">Back in Paris, and there were long letters from Verne; the
government had filed suit for the return of its oil lands, and
the Sunnyside tract was in the hands of a receiver, and all the
development stopped. But they were not to worry—their
organization would be put to work on the various foreign concessions,
and as for the money, what they were getting out of
Paradise would keep them in old age.</p>

<p class="pindent">Strange to say, Dad worried scarcely at all. Mrs. Olivier
had discovered a new medium, even more wonderful than the
others, and this Polish peasant woman with bad teeth and
epilepsy had brought up from the depths of the universal consciousness
the spirit of Dad’s grandfather, who had crossed the
continent in a covered wagon and perished in the Mohave
desert; also there was the spirit of an Indian chief whom the
old pioneer had killed during the journey. Most fascinating
to listen while the two warriors told about this early war
between the reds and the whites!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bertie was furious, of course; she didn’t dare say much to
Dad, for the old man was still the boss, and would tell her
“where to get off.” She took it out on Bunny, storming at
him, because he was the one who might have saved Dad from
this dangerous vamp. Bunny couldn’t help laughing, because
Mrs. Olivier was so far from the type which the Hollywood
directors had taught him to recognize: a stoutish, elderly lady,
sweet and sentimental, with a soft, caressing voice—it was too
funny to listen to her coo to the fierce and surly Indian chief,
“Now, Red Wolf in the Rain, are you going to be nice to us
this evening? We are so glad to hear you again! Captain
Ross’s little grandson is here, and wants you to tell us if the
faces of the redmen are white in your happy world.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny was taking Vee about to see Paris; a city which was
exhibiting to the world the moral collapse of capitalist imperialism.
In the theatres of this culture centre you might see a
stage crowded with naked women, their bodies painted every
color of the rainbow; some of them died of the poisoning which
this treatment inflicted upon the system, but meantime the war
for democracy was justified. While Bunny was there, the
artists of the city took offense because the managers of the
underground railway objected to an obscene advertisement; to
express their scorn of censorship, some hundreds of men and
women emerged at dawn, having torn off their clothing in
drunken orgies, and invaded the subway cars entirely naked.
These beauty-creators and guides of the future held a festival
once every year, the Quatres Arts Ball, a famous event to which
Vee, as a visiting artist, was welcome; and here, when the
revels were at their height, you might stroll about a vast hall,
and see, upon platforms set against the walls, the actual enactment
of every variety of abnormal vice which human degeneracy
had been able to conceive.</p>

<p class="pindent">With the time he had left from such diversions, Bunny was
preparing for “The Young Student” a moving protest against
the Roumanian White Terror. He left this nearly completed
manuscript on the writing table in his hotel room, and when he
came back it was gone, and inquiries among the hotel staff
brought no information. Two days later Bertie came to him
with another tantrum; she knew all the contents of his manuscript,
and what shame he was bringing upon their heads! “So
Eldon’s been setting spies on me!” exclaimed Bunny, ready to
get hot himself; but Bertie, said rubbish, Eldon had nothing to
do with it, it was the French secret service. Did he imagine
for a moment the government was failing to keep track of
Bolshevik propaganda? Or that they would let him use their
country as a centre of plotting against the peace of Europe?</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny wanted to know, were they so silly as to imagine
they could keep him from writing home what he had learned in
Vienna? He would do the article over, and find ways to get
it to America in spite of all the spies. Then Bertie actually
broke down and wept; of all countries for him to pick out—Roumania!
Here she had been pulling wires to get Eldon
appointed to a high diplomatic post, with the combined influence
of Verne in Washington and Prince Marescu in Bucharest;
and now Bunny came along and smeared them with his filth!</p>

<p class="pindent">And more than that! Blind fool, couldn’t he see that
Marescu was interested in Vee? Did he want to give her up
to him? The prince would of course hear about this matter
through the French government, which was arming Roumania
against Russia. Suppose he were to come back to Paris and
challenge Bunny to a duel? The young smart-aleck answered,
“We’ll fight with tennis rackets!”</p>

<h3>IV</h3>

<p class="pindent">Matters came to a climax. A letter for Bunny, bearing a
French stamp, but in a familiar handwriting that made his
pulses jump. He tore it open and read: “Dear Son, I am in
town for a few days and would you like to meet me? Yours
for old times, Paul Watkins.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny was twenty-four years old now, but it was just the
way it had been eleven years ago, there in Mrs. Groarty’s back
yard, when he had left his father and run shouting, “Paul!
Paul! Where are you? Please don’t go way!” Bunny had
a date with Vee, but he got out of it—his sister would invite
her to one of those diplomatic tea-parties where you met the
Prince de This and the Duchesse de That. Then Bunny hurried
off to the obscure hotel where his friend was staying.</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul was haggard; one does not take a trip to Moscow to
get fat. But his sober face was shining with a light of
fanaticism—the same thing which his brother Eli called the
glory of the Lord! Dad would have said there were two of
them, equally crazy; but it didn’t seem that way to Bunny, who
mocked at Eli’s god, but believed in Paul’s—at least enough to
tremble in his presence. Paul had been living under a workers’
government again—and this time not as a wage-slave, a strike-breaker
in army uniform, but as a free man, and master of the
future. So now in this dingy hotel room Bunny was sitting
opposite an apostle; Paul, with his sombre, determined features
and toil-accustomed figure, the very incarnation of the militant
working-class!</p>

<p class="pindent">And the miracles of which he had to tell were real. First
of all a spiritual miracle—a hundred million people proclaiming
their own sovereignty, and the downfall of masters and
exploiters, kings, priests, capitalists, the whole rabble of parasites.
It was a physical miracle, too, because these hundred
million people controlled one-sixth of the earth’s surface, and
were building a new civilization, a model for the future. They
were poor, of course; they had started with a country in wreck.
But what were a few years, and a little hunger, compared with
the ages of torment they had survived?</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul described the sights of Moscow. First of all, the
youth movement; a whole new generation being taught to be
clear-eyed and free, to face the facts of nature, and to serve
the working-class, instead of climbing out upon its face and
founding a line of parasites! You saw those young Communists
in class-rooms, on athletic fields, in the streets—marching,
singing, listening to speeches—Paul himself had talked to
tens of thousands, in his little bit of Russian, and nothing had
ever meant so much to him. He had but one interest for the
rest of his life, to tell the young workers of America about the
young workers of Russia. He began by telling Bunny!</p>

<p class="pindent">He talked about the councils he had attended, the international
gatherings where the future of the parties all over the
world was charted out. Bunny of course made his protest
against this. Did Paul really think it was possible for an
American political party to have its course determined in a
foreign country? Paul smiled and said it was hard enough—the
Russian leaders couldn’t understand how far back in history
America stood. But what else could you do? Either you
meant to have world order, or you didn’t? If you left the
party in each country to determine its own course, you were
right back where you were before the war, with men calling
themselves Socialists, and holding power in the name of
Socialism, who were in reality patriots, ready to back the
exploiters of their own land in wars against the exploiters of
other lands.</p>

<p class="pindent">That was the thing which threatened to destroy the human
race; and the only way to end it was to do what the Third
International was doing—have a world government and enforce
its orders. The workers’ world government was located in
Moscow, because elsewhere the delegates would be thrown into
prison, or assassinated, as in Geneva. But before many years
the Third International would hold a Congress in Berlin, and
then in Paris and London, and in the end in New York. The
workers of the world would send their representatives, and
that Congress would give its orders, and the nations would stop
their fighting, just you bet! Thus Paul: and Bunny, as usual,
was swept along upon a wave of enthusiasm.</p>

<h3>V</h3>

<p class="pindent">There were so many things Bunny wanted to know about.
He took Paul to dinner, in an outdoor café, and they spent a
good part of the evening, French fashion, conversing there.
Paul told about the schools; all the new educational discoveries
that had been made in America, but could only be applied in
Russia. And the papers and books—the modern, progressive
writers being translated and spread over the half of two continents.
And industry—the colossal labors of a people to build
a modern world out of nothing, with no capital and no help
from the outside. Paul described the oil industry under this
Soviet system; a state trust, in which the workers’ unions were
recognized, and given a voice in labor affairs. The workers
published papers, they had clubs and dramatic societies, a new
culture, based upon industry instead of exploitation.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then, of course, Bunny wanted to know about Ruth, and
about Paul’s arrest and his trial, and what was he going to do
now. He was on his way back to America, and would probably
be put to organizing in California, because that was the place
he knew best. He had been in Paradise and held secret meetings
with the men; until at last he had been found out and put
off the tract—the place where he had been born, and had lived
nearly all his life! But that was all right, the party had a
“nucleus,” as it was called, in the field, and literature was being
distributed and read.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny told what he had learned in Vienna, and how his
article on Roumania had been stolen; Paul said that in every
European capital there were more spies than there were lice.
Very probably there was some agent sitting at one of these
tables, trying to hear what they said. His baggage was rifled
every few days. The imbecile governments, trying to crush the
workers’ movement—and at the same time piling up their munitions,
getting ready for the next war, that would make Bolshevism
as inevitable as the sunrise!</p>

<p class="pindent">“You really think there’ll be another war, Paul?”</p>

<p class="pindent">The other laughed. “Ask your eminent brother-in-law!
He’ll know.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But he wouldn’t tell me. We barely speak.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul answered that armaments produce wars automatically;
the capitalists who make the armaments have to see that they
are used, in order to get to make more. Bunny said that the
idea of another war seemed too horrible to think about; and
Paul replied, “So you don’t think about it, and that makes it
easy for the business men to get it ready.”</p>

<p class="pindent">He sat for a bit in thought, and then went on, “Since I’ve
been travelling in Europe, I find myself remembering that
night when you and I met for the first time. Do you recollect
it, son?”</p>

<p class="pindent">When Bunny said that he did, Paul went on, “I wasn’t in
my aunt’s living-room, and I didn’t see those people that had
come to lease their lots; but I listened outside and heard the
wrangling; and now, as I go about Europe I say to myself,
that is world diplomacy. A wrangle over an oil lease! Every
nation hating every other one, making combinations and promising
to stick together—but they’ve sold each other out before
night, and there’s no lie that any one hasn’t told, and no crime
they haven’t committed. You remember that row?”</p>

<p class="pindent">How well Bunny remembered! Miss Snypp—he hadn’t
known her name, but her face rose before him, brick-red with
wrath. “Let me tell you, you’ll never get me to put my signature
on that paper—never in this world!” And Mr. Hank, the
man with the hatchet-face, shouting, “Let me tell you, the law
will make you sign it”—only there was no law in European
diplomacy! And Mrs. Groarty, Paul’s aunt, glaring at Mr.
Hank and clenching her hands as if she had him by the throat.
“And you the feller that was yellin’ for the rights of the little
lots! You was for sharin’ and sharin’ alike—you snake in
the grass!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Said Paul: “Those people were so blind with greed, they
were willing to throw away their own chances for the satisfaction
of beating the others. They did that, I think you told
me—threw away the lease with your father. And everybody in
the field behaved the same way. I wonder if you happen to
know, it’s government statistics on that Prospect Hill field—more
money was spent in drilling than ever was taken out
in oil!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, of course,” said Bunny. “I’ve seen derricks there
with platforms actually touching.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Each one racing to get the oil, and spending more than
he makes—isn’t that a picture of capitalism? And then the
war! You remember how we heard the racket, and ran to the
window, and there was one fellow hitting the next fellow in
the nose, and the whole roomful milling about, shouting and
trying to stop the fight, or to get into it!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“One said, ‘You dirty, lying yellow skunk!’ And the other
said, ‘Take that, you white-livered puppy!’ ”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Son, that was a little oil war! And a year or two later the
big one broke out, and if there’s anything you don’t understand
about it, all you need is to think about what happened in
my aunt’s home. And remember, they were fighting for a
chance to exploit the oil workers, to divide the wealth the oil
workers were going to produce; in their crazy greed they killed
or injured seventy-three percent of all the men they put to
work on Prospect Hill—that’s government statistics also! And
don’t you see how that’s the world war exactly? The workers
doing the fighting, and the bankers getting the bonds!”</p>

<h3>VI</h3>

<p class="pindent">So many things to talk about! Bunny told the story of
Eli, concerning which Paul had heard no rumor. The latter
said it was easy to understand, because Eli always had been a
chaser after women. It was one reason Paul had been so
repelled by his brother’s preaching. “I wouldn’t mind his having
his girl,” he said, “only he denies my right to my girl. He
preaches a silly ideal of asceticism, and then goes off secretly
and does what he pleases.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Here was an opportunity for which Bunny had been seeking.
He took a sudden plunge. “Paul, there’s something I want to
tell you. For the past three years I’ve been living with a moving
picture actress.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I know,” said Paul; “Ruth told me.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Ruth!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, she saw something about it in the papers,” And then,
reading his friend’s thought, Paul added, “Ruth has had to
learn that the world is the way it is, and not the way she’d
like it to be.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What do you think about such things, Paul?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, son, it’s a question of how you feel about the girl.
If you really love her, and she loves you, why, I suppose it’s
all right. Are you happy?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“We were at first; we still are, part of the time. The
trouble is, she hates the radical movement. She doesn’t really
understand it, of course.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul answered, “Some people hate the radical movement
because they don’t understand it, and some because they do.”
After Bunny had had time to digest that, he went on, “Either
you’ll have to change your ideas, or you’ll have a break with
the girl. That’s something I’m sure about—you can’t have
happiness in love unless it’s built on harmony of ideas. Otherwise
you quarrel all the time—or at least, you’re bored.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Have you ever lived with a woman, Paul?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“There was a girl I was very much attracted to in Angel
City, and I could have had her, I guess. But it was a couple
of years ago, when I saw that I was going Bolshevik, and I
knew she wouldn’t stand for it, so what was the use? You
get yourself tangled up in a lot of emotions, and waste the time
you need for work.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’ve often wondered about you and such things. You used
to think the way Eli talks, when we first met.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul laughed. “I’d hardly keep my Christian superstitions
when I became a Communist organizer. No, son; what I think
is, find a woman you really love, and that wants to share your
work, and that you mean to stick by; then you can love her,
you don’t need any priest to give you permission. Some day
I suppose I’ll meet a woman comrade—I think about it a good
deal, of course—I’m no wooden post. But I’ll have to wait and
see what happens at my trial. I’d be little use to a girl if I’ve
got to spend twenty years in Leavenworth or Atlanta!”</p>

<h3>VII</h3>

<p class="pindent">Paul was going to speak at a meeting of Communists the
next evening, and Bunny must go to that meeting, of course.
But what was he to do with Vee? She would not be interested
in hearing Paul tell about Russia; she had learned all about it
from her friend, Prince Marescu. Bunny bethought him of
Dad and the seances, and by tactful manipulation he caused the
old gentleman to call up Vee and tell her about an especially
interesting seance they were going to have that evening. Vee
promised to come, and Bunny thought he was free.</p>

<p class="pindent">But then about lunch-time Bertie called him on the phone.
“So your old Paul is in Paris!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny was startled; having thought he was keeping a
secret. Then he laughed. “So your old secret service has been
at work!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Said his sister, “I just thought you might be interested to
know—your old Paul is not going to speak tonight. The police
have arrested him.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Who told you that?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“They’ve just notified the embassy. He’s to be expelled—in
fact he’s on his way now.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“My God, Bertie, are you sure?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Of course I’m sure. Did you think they’d let him make
Bolshevik speeches in France?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I mean—are you sure they’re going to expel him?” Bunny
had learned so much about the treatment accorded to the reds—all
Europe had adopted the sweet custom of the American
police, to beat their prisoners with rubber hose, which leaves no
marks upon the skin. So there began a wrangle over the phone,
Bunny in a panic, insisting upon knowing what official had
given the information to Eldon; and Bertie insisting that Bunny
should not make another of his stinks in Paris, and maybe get
himself deported, and his brother-in-law ruined in the eyes of
all Europe.</p>

<p class="pindent">In the end Bunny hung up, and called the office of the Communist
newspaper. Did they know about the arrest of Comrade
Puull Votkan—so it was necessary to say it. No, they
knew nothing about it, they would endeavor to find out. And
Bunny jumped into a taxi-cab and hastened to the office of the
Prefet de Police, where he was received with a lack of that
courtesy which police officials usually display to young gentlemen
properly tailored. They had no information to give about
the American, Puull Votkan, but they would like to receive
information about an American named Zhay Arnoll R-r-osss
feess, and how long he expected to abuse the hospitality of the
French government by giving sums of money to enemies of
public safety.</p>

<p class="pindent">Meantime Bertie, in her desperation, was appealing to Vee
Tracy, begging her to make one more effort to get Bunny out
of this hideous entanglement. Vee answered that she would
make one more, and only one. She turned from the telephone
and ordered her maid to pack her belongings, and when Bunny
came back from his visit to the police, he found a note in his
mail-box:</p>

<p class="pindent">“Dear Bunny: I have just learned why I was to be put off
with a spiritualist seance tonight, instead of going to the
opera with you! The time has come when you have to choose
between your red friends and me, and I have moved to another
hotel until you make up your mind. Please give me your
decision by letter. Do not try to see me, because I will not
speak to you again until this matter has been settled. If it is
to be all over between us, a quick clean cut is the way I choose.
I will no longer endure the humiliation of being associated with
dangerous criminals; and unless you can say that you love me
enough to change your associates, I mean that you are never to
see me again. Take time to think it over, but not too much
time. Yours, Vee.”</p>

<p class="pindent">As a matter of fact, Bunny did not need any time. Even
while he was reading the letter, a voice was telling him that he
had known it was coming. After the first shock of pain had
passed, he sat himself down and wrote:</p>

<p class="pindent">“Dear Vee: We have had great happiness together. I have
suffered for a long time, because I knew it had to end. I won’t
waste your time arguing in defense of my ideas; I have some,
and cannot give them up, any more than you can yours. I
wish you every happiness that can come to you in life, and hope
you will not cherish bitterness in your heart, because it is something
I truly cannot change. If ever the time comes that I can
aid you, I will be yours to command. With just the same
affection, Bunny-rabbit.”</p>

<h3>VIII</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny must not stop to nourish his grief, but must hurry
to call upon the French Communists and offer to pay the costs
of a lawyer to institute legal proceedings and find out what was
happening to Paul. But as a matter of fact the effort was not
necessary, for next morning all the newspapers had the story:
a notorious American Bolshevik agitator had been escorted by
the authorities to Havre and placed on board a steamer to sail
that day. The Communist paper in its report commented sarcastically;
this was one Bolshevik agitator whom the American
government could not very well refuse to admit, since they had
him under bond of twenty thousand dollars to make his appearance
in court! Bunny had so little confidence in the French
authorities that he took the precaution to wireless Paul to the
steamer with reply prepaid; and a few hours later he got the
words, “On the way to Paradise”—a code message from Paul!</p>

<p class="pindent">Three days later came a message from his sweetheart—no
code this time, but a proclamation to the whole world. The
newspapers of Paris and all other capitals—of Madagascar,
Paraguay, Nova Zembla, Thibet and New Guinea—announced
the engagement of Viola Tracy, American screen actress, to
Prince Marescu of Roumania; the wedding was to take place
in the great cathedral of Bucharest, and Queen Marie herself
would attend. The efficient publicity organization of Schmolsky-Superba
had contrived many a stunt in its time, but never one
so effective as this which fate handed to it, free, gratis, and
for nothing!</p>

<p class="pindent">And so there was a chapter closed in Bunny’s life. The
door which had led from his suite in the hotel to Vee’s suite
was locked, and a piece of furniture moved in front of it. But
there was no piece of furniture that could be moved in front of
the memory in Bunny’s mind! Nothing could shut out that
slender white figure, so vivid and eager, and the memory of
the delights she had brought to him. He was maimed in soul,
as the victims of the White Terror were maimed in body—and
in the same cause!</p>

<p class="pindent">There were women here, of all kinds and sizes, native and
American, young ladies of the highest fashionableness, willing
to receive the attentions of a young oil prince. They knew
about his romance and his broken heart; and their shrewd
mammas told them an ancient formula, known to the feminine
world since the dawn of coquetry—“Catch him on the rebound!”
Bunny was besought to attend tea-parties and dances, but mostly
he went to Socialist meetings; and when he thought about
girls, it was to Angel City that his fancy fled. Ruth Watkins
was so gentle and quiet, yet brave—not giving up her brother
because he turned into a Bolshevik! And Rachel Menzies was
so steady, so grim in her determination to send him a four-page
paper, as regular as the calendar, and always telling him everything
he wanted to know! Once every month she sent an
itemized statement of receipts and expenditures, typed with
her own fingers, and always exactly right—whatever dollars
were left over went for sample copies, so he was never troubled
by either surplus or deficit!</p>

<h3>IX</h3>

<p class="pindent">September, and Dad came bringing an announcement that
caused him to hesitate, and turn fiery red after he got going.
“You know, son, I have got to be very good friends with Alyse,
we—that is, we are interested in the same ideas, and we realize
that we can help each other.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, Dad, of course.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, the fact is—you know how it is—I’ve been imposing
on you for so long, but now you will be free, because I’ve
asked Alyse to marry me, and she consents.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, Dad, I’ve been expecting that for quite a while. I’m
sure you will be happy.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Dad looked very much relieved—had he feared a tantrum,
after the fashion of Bertie? He hastened to say, “I want to tell
you—Alyse and I have talked the matter over, and we agree—she
is fond of you, and appreciates your standing by me and all,
and she wants you to know that she’s not marrying me for my
money.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No, Dad, I don’t think that.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, you know Bertie, and what she thinks. Bertie is
mercenary—I suppose she got it from her mother. Anyhow,
I’m not a-goin’ to say anything to her about this, it is none of
her business; we’ll jist get married on the quiet, and Bertie can
read about it in the papers. What I’m a-goin’ to do is this—Alyse
says she hasn’t had anything to do with helping me make
my money, and she don’t want my children to hate her, as they
will if she comes in and takes a big share.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, but I won’t, Dad!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“We’ve agreed that I’m to make a will, and leave a million
dollars to her, and the rest will go to you and Bertie, and Alyse
will be satisfied with that—it will give her enough to carry on
the psychic work she’s interested in. You understand, she
wants to do that—”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, of course, Dad. I am a propagandist too!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I know son; and what I’ve been thinking—you have a
right to express your ideas. And while I don’t agree with that
little paper, I can see that it’s honest, it says what you think;
so I’m a-goin’ to make over a million dollars worth of Ross
stock to you, and you can jist go ahead and do what you please
with that. I hope you won’t turn into a Bolsheviki like Paul,
and I hope you won’t find it necessary to get into jail.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“It would be pretty hard to keep me in jail if I had a million
dollars, Dad.”</p>

<p class="pindent">The old man grinned; the mediums and the spirits had not
yet driven the old devil entirely out of him. He went on to say
that of course they weren’t going to have as much money as
he had once thought. Those government suits were a-goin’
to dig a big hole in it—no doubt the politicians would fix it so
Dad and Verne would lose. Of course they might get a pile
out of these new deals abroad, but that was speculative—not
the sort of thing Dad fancied, but he was leaving it to
Verne.</p>

<p class="pindent">“What are you and Mrs.—Alyse going to do, Dad?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, we want to have a sort of—you might call it a
Spiritualist honeymoon. We’ll go see that medium in Vienna,
and there’s another in Frankfort that we’ve heard about. It’ll
depend for one thing on what you want. Maybe you’ll go back
to California.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I think I will, Dad, for a while—if you are sure you can
spare me.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Yes, Dad said he and Alyse would get along all right; his
secretary had learned enough French for practical purposes,
and they would have a courier or interpreter for their stay in
Germany. He hoped the climate there would agree with him;
he didn’t seem ever to be strong now. That flu had sort of
done him up.</p>

<p class="pindent">The preliminary steps were taken, and Bunny and his father
and the secretary and Mrs. Alyse Huntington Forsythe Olivier
all put on their best glad rags and appeared before the maire
of one of the small towns on the outskirts of Paris and were
duly wedded, and Bunny kissed his new stepmother on both
cheeks, and the maire did the same, and also kissed Bunny and
Dad on both cheeks. And then Dad took his son to one side
and placed an envelope in his hands. It was an order on Verne
to turn over thirty-two hundred shares of Ross Consolidated
Class B stock; a little more than a million at the market. They
were “street certificates,” Dad explained—he had already signed
them and left them with Verne, in case they wished to market
them. “And now, son,” said the old man, “have a little sense—this
is a pile of money, and don’t throw it away. Take your
time, and be sure what you want to do, and don’t let yourself
be plucked by grafters that will come round jist as soon as
they smell it!”</p>

<p class="pindent">The same old Dad! They gave each other hugs and squeezes;
there were tears in everybody’s eyes, even the secretary, and the
maire and his clerks, who had never heard of such fees for a
wedding—marvelous people, ces Americains! And Bunny said
for Dad to write all the news, and Dad said for Bunny to write
all the news; and Bunny said he would return to France next
summer if Dad were not able to come to America, and Dad
said he was sure Verne would have it all fixed up before that.
And then Bunny kissed his stepmother again, and then he
hugged Dad again, and then shook hands with the secretary—a
regular debauch of the sweet sorrows of parting, with the
officials and a crowd of street urchins standing by on the sidewalk,
staring at the grand rich car and the grand rich Americans.
Bunny was glad to look back on it in after years—at least
that once the old man had been happy! All the chatter, and
the messages, and the flowers, the baggage to be seen to and
the robes to be tucked in—and then at last they were rolling
down the street, amid waving of hands and cheers—headed for
a Spiritualist seance in Frankfort-am-Main!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny took a train back to Paris, and wrote out two messages
announcing that he was sailing for home; one to Ruth
Watkins and one to Rachel Menzies—playing no favorites!
Then he bought a paper, and read a brief despatch—“Great
California Oil Fire.” A bolt of lightning had struck one of the
storage tanks of the Ross Consolidated Oil Company at Paradise,
California, and as a high wind was blowing, it was not
thought possible to save any portion of the tank-farm, and
possibly the whole field might be destroyed.</p>

<p class="pindent">When Bunny got back to the hotel, there was a cablegram
from Angel City. It was impossible to make any guess what
the damage would be, but they were fully insured and nothing
to worry about, “A. H. Dory”—still Verne’s signature when he
wanted to be playful. Bunny forwarded the message to his
father, and asked if he should wait; but Dad’s answer was, no,
whatever he had to say could be said by letter or cable, and he
would be glad to have Bunny on the scene to report. “Love
and best wishes,” were the concluding words—the last that Dad
was ever to say to his son, except through the channel of the
spirits!</p>

<h3>X</h3>

<p class="pindent">A steamer took Bunny out to sea—one of those floating
hotels, like the one he had left in Paris, fitted in the style of a
palace, mahogany finish and silken draperies and cushions, and
the most elegant society, flashing jewels and costly gowns—five
thousand dollars per female person would have been a
modest estimate for evenings in the dining saloon. And very
soon the tongues of gossip began to buzz—“His father’s the
California oil man, they say he owns whole fields out there, but
one of them is burning up, according to the papers. The Ross
that was in the scandal, you remember, he’s hiding abroad,
been there nearly a year, but the son can come back, of course.
They say he was one of the lovers of Viola Tracy, but she
chucked him and married the Roumanian prince. Catch him on
the rebound, my dear!”</p>

<p class="pindent">So everybody was lovely to Bunny; so many charming
young things to dance with, until any hour of the morning; or
to stroll on deck and be lost in the darkness with, if one preferred.
All day they flitted about him, casting coy and seductive
glances: they were interested in everything he was interested
in, even the book he was reading—provided he would
talk about it instead of reading it. There were some who
would say that they were interested in Socialism, they didn’t
know much about it, but were eager to learn. Until the second
morning out, when the young Socialist received a wireless which
entirely removed him from fashionable society:</p>

<p class="pindent">“Your father very ill with double pneumonia have obtained
best medical attention will keep you informed deepest sympathy
and affection Alyse.”</p>

<p class="pindent">So then Bunny walked the deck alone, and suffered exactly
those torments of remorse which Vernon Roscoe had predicted
for him. Oh, surely he could have been kinder, more patient
with that good old man! Surely he could have tried harder to
understand and to help! Now fate was taking him away, five
or six hundred miles every day—and at any moment might
snatch him to a distance beyond calculation. His father himself
had felt it—Bunny went over what he had said, and realized
that Dad had faced the thought of death, and had been giving
his son such last advice as he could.</p>

<p class="pindent">At first nothing but remorse. But then little by little the
debate—the old, old dispute that had torn Bunny’s mind in
half. Was it possible for men to go on doing what Dad had
been doing in the conduct of his business? Could any civilization
endure on the basis of such purchase of government? No,
Bunny told himself; but then—he should have tried harder,
more lovingly, and persuaded his father to stop it! But at what
stage? Dad had been purchasing government ever since Bunny
could remember, as a little boy. All the oil men purchased
government, all big business men did it, either before or after
election. And at what stage of life shall a boy say to his father,
your way of life is wrong, and you must let me take charge
of it?</p>

<p class="pindent">There was no new thought that Bunny could think about
all this; any more than in the case of Vee Tracy. Just the
grief, and the ache of loneliness! Old things going; they kept
going—and where did they go? It was a mystery that made
you dizzy, at moments like this; you stood on the brink of a
precipice and looked down into a gulf! The most incredible
idea, that his father, who was so real, and had been for so
long a part of his being—should suddenly disappear and cease
to be! For the first time Bunny began to wonder, could Alyse
be right about the spirits?</p>

<p class="pindent">Another message in the evening. “Condition unchanged
will keep you advised sympathy and affection.” These last
words never failed in the messages; the next day, when Dad’s
condition was the same and the crisis expected tomorrow; and
then tomorrow, when Dad was sinking; and then, the morning
after, when Alyse wired, “Your father’s spirit has passed from
this world to the next but he will never cease to be with you
he spoke of you at the last and promises that if you will communicate
with a good medium in Angel City he will guide your
life with love and affection as ever Alyse.” And then a message
from Bertie: “I was with Dad at the end and he forgave me
will you forgive me also.” When Bunny read that, he had to
hurry to his stateroom, and lie there and cry like a little child.
Yes, he would forgive her, so he wired in reply, and might
whoever had made them forgive them all!</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XX<br /> <span class="sub-head">THE DEDICATION</span></h1></div>

<h3>I</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny was alone in the roaring city of New York—six or
seven millions of people, and not many known to him. There
were reporters, of course—it made a “human interest” story,
fate snatching one of the oil magnates away from the Senate
inquisitors. The country was near the end of a bitter presidential
campaign, and the smallest item about the oil scandal
was of importance. Also Bunny had cablegrams and telegrams
of sympathy—from Verne and Annabelle, from Paul and Ruth,
from Rachel and her father and brothers; yes, and one from
the Princess Marescu, signing herself, with old-time nearness,
“Vee-Vee.”</p>

<p class="pindent">He purchased his ticket home, by way of Washington, and
on the train he read the back newspapers, with the day by day
account of what happened to his boyhood dream of a great
oil field: enormous oceans of flame rolling over the earth, turning
night into day with the glare, turning day into night with
thunder clouds of smoke; rivers of blazing oil rushing down the
valleys, and a gale of wind sweeping the fire from one hill to
the next. A dozen great storage tanks had gone, and the whole
refinery, with all its tanks, and some three hundred derricks,
licked up and devoured in that roaring furnace. It was the
worst oil fire in California history, eight or ten million dollars
loss.</p>

<p class="pindent">In Washington was someone for Bunny to tell his troubles
to—Dan Irving! They took a long walk, and the older man
put his arm about Bunny and told him that he had done everything
possible in a difficult situation. Dan could assure him
that he didn’t have to think of his father as a bad man; Dan
had made it his business to know, and could confirm Bunny’s
judgment, American big business men all purchased government,
they all justified the purchase of government. It was
something that had shocked Dan in the beginning, but he had
come to realize now that it was a system; without the purchase
of government, American big business could not exist. You
saw it written plain in the instinctive reaction of the whole
business world to the oil scandals, the determinaton to damp
them down, to make nothing of them, to indict and prosecute,
not the criminals, but the exposers of the crime.</p>

<p class="pindent">So they got to talking politics, which was the best thing for
Bunny, to divert his mind and get him back to his job. Dan
had been doing what he could in this presidential campaign,
but he was sick with the sense of impotence. The whole
capitalist publicity machine had been set to work on a new
job, to glorify “Cautious Cal” to the American people—this
pitiful little man, a fifth-rate country politician, a would-be
store-keeper, he was the great strong silent statesman and the
plain people’s hero! One thing, and one only, the business men
expected of him, to cut down their income taxes; in everything
else he would be a cipher. The newspaper men were disgusted
by their job, but all were helpless, their papers at home would
take only one kind of news. And here was poor Dan with his
labor press service, a score or two of obscure papers, perhaps
a hundred thousand circulation in all, and most of the time
not enough money for the office rent.</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s what I want to talk to you about,” said Bunny.
“Before I left France, Dad gave me a million dollars in Ross
Consolidated stock. I don’t know what it’ll be worth since the
fire, but Verne says there’s full insurance. I’m not going to
touch the principal till I have time to think things over, but I’ll
put a thousand dollars a month of the income into your work,
if that will help.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Help? My God, Bunny, that’s more money than we’ve
ever thought of! I’ve been trying to raise an extra hundred a
month, so as to mail free copies where they would count.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Said Bunny, “I’ll turn the money over to you with only one
provision—that you’re to have two hundred a month salary.
There’s no reason why you should run yourself into debt
financing the radical movement.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Dan laughed. “No reason, except that there wouldn’t be
any radical movement if some didn’t do that. You’re the first
really fat angel that has appeared in my sky.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, wait,” said Bunny, “till I find out just how fat I’m
going to be. I’ve an idea my friend Vernon Roscoe will do
what he can to keep me lean. He knows that whatever I get
will go to making trouble for him.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“My gosh!” said Dan. “Have you seen the things we’ve
been sending out about Roscoe’s foreign concessions, and what
the state department is doing to make him rich? That story
would beat the Sunnyside lease, if we could get the Senate to
investigate it!”</p>

<h3>II</h3>

<p class="pindent">Chicago, and more messages for Bunny. He had cabled
Dad’s secretary to ascertain if there was any will among Dad’s
papers. The secretary replied that nothing had been found,
and neither the widow nor the daughter knew of such document.
They were proceeding to Paris after the funeral, and
the secretary would cable if anything was found there.</p>

<p class="pindent">So then to Angel City, and more cablegrams; the secretary
advised that no will was among Mr. Ross’s papers in Paris, and
Bertie cabled, “I believe that infamous woman has destroyed
will. Have you anything in Dad’s writing or hers.” From
which Bunny made note that death-bed repentances do not last
very long—at least not when it’s another person’s death-bed!
Bunny had nothing from Dad, except the order for the Ross
stock, and that wouldn’t bring much satisfaction to Bertie. He
cabled to Alyse, at her Paris hotel, reminding her that his father
had stated the terms of their marriage to be that she was to
receive one million dollars from the estate, and no more, and
asking her to confirm that agreement. The reply which he
received was from a firm of American lawyers in Paris, advising
him on behalf of their client, Mrs. Alyse Huntington
Forsythe Olivier Ross, that she knew of no such agreement as
he had mentioned in his cablegram, and that she would claim
her full rights in the estate. Bunny smiled grimly as he read.
A clash between Spiritualism and Socialism!</p>

<p class="pindent">Also a clash between Capitalism and Socialism! Bunny
went to call on his father’s partner, at the office, where both
could speak frankly; and they did. Verne’s first statement was
a knockout—Bunny’s father had been mistaken in thinking
that he had any Ross Consolidated Class B stock, and therefore
his order upon Verne was worthless. All those street certificates
had been sold some time ago at Dad’s order; Dad’s memory
had evidently been failing since his illness—or perhaps he had
not been watching his affairs since taking up with Spiritualism.
His business was in a bad way. In the first place, the Ross
Consolidated Operating Company, which had been Dad’s
choicest holding, was practically bankrupt. Verne had that day
been notified by the fire insurance companies involved that they
would not pay the claims, because they had evidence that the
fires had been of incendiary origin; they didn’t quite say it in
plain English, but they implied that Verne or his agents had
started the fires, because the company had an oversupply of oil
and was caught with a failing market.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Good God!” said Bunny. “What’s that, a bluff?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No,” said Verne, “that’s a scheme of Mark Eisenberg, who
runs the banking business in this city for the Big Five, to
knock one of the independents out. They’ll tie us up in the
courts for Christ knows how many years. Ross Operating
won’t have the cash to develop that burned over field, and if
it has to assess its stockholders for the money, your father’s
estate won’t be able to finance its share without help. The
Lobos River wells are played out, and the Prospect Hill field
is filling with water. Of course your father’s got shares in
my foreign undertakings, but none of them will realize anything
for a long time; so it looks as if you’ll have to sell them
out.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Who is to handle all this?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Here’s a copy of Jim’s will—you can take it home and
study it at your leisure. The executors are you and me and
Fred Orpan, and you and Bertie are to divide the estate. Of
course that’s been knocked out by his marriage; unless he’s
made another will, the widow gets one-half, and you and
Bertie a quarter. I promised your father I’d do the executor’s
work, so I suppose it’s up to me. Let me say this right away—that
Paradise field bears your name, and if you want to take it
over and run it, I won’t stand in your way. You can sell some
of your other holdings and buy me out at the market price and
run the business for yourself. Do you want to be an oil man?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No,” said Bunny, promptly. “I do not.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, then, I’ll have to buy out your father’s stock; because
the company is bankrupt, and I won’t carry it unless I have
control. You and me couldn’t work together, Jim Junior—your
ideals are too high.” Verne laughed—but without his usual
jollity. “If I hadn’t promised your old man to do this job, I’d
like to dump Ross Operating onto you and let it go bankrupt
on your hands, and see what you’d do. You didn’t agree with
your father about business men controlling the courts. Well,
by Jees, you just be an upright public-spirited young citizen,
and let the courts appoint a receiver for Ross Operating, without
any bribery or undue influence of any sort—not pulling any
political wires or making any threats or improper promises—and
see how much you’d have left of the eight or ten millions,
or whatever will be collected from the insurance companies a
few years from now!”</p>

<h3>III</h3>

<p class="pindent">From these ugly problems Bunny had a refuge—his little
paper. He had arrived on a Sunday, and Rachel had met him
at the train, with a dozen of the Ypsels, their faces shining.
There was a cheer at sight of him—just as if he had been a
moving picture star! There were handshakes all round—he
and Rachel had several extra shakes, they were so glad to be
together. The young people knew that Bunny would be sad
over his father’s death, and possibly also the burning of his
oil field; so they crowded round, and told him all the news
at once, and Rachel produced the proofs of a new issue of
“The Young Student,” also last week’s issue, and several others
that he might not have received.</p>

<p class="pindent">The little office was home—the only home Bunny had,
because the mansion his father had rented had been subleased,
and their personal belongings put in storage before Aunt Emma
came to Europe. The office was only one room, but quite impressive
with files and records accumulating; they had a subscription
list of over six thousand now, and were printing eight
thousand this week. But Rachel still had only one assistant—the
Ypsels did the wrapping and addressing, evenings and
Saturdays and Sundays. They hadn’t got mobbed or arrested
any more; the Socialists were supporting LaFollette for president,
and that gave them the right to be let alone for a while.</p>

<p class="pindent">And then Ruth. Bunny went to call on her, in the same
little cottage. Paul had not got home yet; he had stopped in
Chicago for a party conference, and now was coming by way of
the northwest, speaking every night. He was having good
meetings, because of the prominence his arrests had given him.
The story of his expulsion from France had been in the papers
all over the country, and Ruth showed Bunny letters telling
about this and other adventures with police and spies. Ruth had
made Paul promise to write her a post-card every single day;
and when she didn’t get one, then right away she began to
imagine him in some police dungeon, getting the third degree.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny watched her face as she talked. Her words were
cheerful—she was a graduate nurse now, and able to earn good
money, and save some if Paul should be in need. But she was
pale, and her face was strained. There were Communist papers
and magazines on the table, and Bunny could see at a glance
what was happening. These papers came for Paul; and Ruth,
sitting here alone many and many an evening, had read them,
looking for news about her brother; so she had absorbed all
the horrors about the torturing and maiming and shooting of
political prisoners, and it had been exactly as if Paul had been
in battle.</p>

<p class="pindent">Ruth hadn’t what you would call a theoretical mind; you
never heard her talk about party tactics and political developments
and things like that. She was instinctive, yet with class-consciousness
all the more intense and passionate for that.
She had been through two strikes, and the things she had seen
with her own eyes had been all the lessons in economics she
would ever need. She knew that the workers in big industry
are wage-slaves, fighting for their very lives. And this war was
not like capitalist wars—this one had to be, because the masters
made it. But even thus believing in Paul’s work, Ruth could
not help being in a tension of anxiety.</p>

<p class="pindent">Also—a strange and perplexing thing—Ruth was angry
with Rachel and “The Young Student”! It appeared that the
Socialists had been getting up meetings all over the country for
a so-called Social-revolutionary from Russia, a lecturer who
made the imprisonment of his partisans in Russia the pretext
for attacks on the Soviet Government. The Social-revolutionaries
were the people who had tried to assassinate Lenin,
and who had taken the money of capitalist governments to stir
up civil war inside Russia. How could Bunny’s paper give
support to them?</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny went back to Rachel and the Ypsels, who declared
that this man was a Socialist, opposing the partisans of violence;
the Communists had come to the meeting and tried to howl
him down, and there had been almost a fight. So here was
poor Bunny, facing with dismay the same internal warfare in
the movement, which had so distressed him in Paris and Berlin
and Vienna! He had been so profoundly impressed by Paul
and his account of Russia, but he found that Rachel had not
moved an inch from her position. She would defend the right
of the Russians to work out their own destiny, she would
defend their right to be heard in America—even though they
would not defend her right. But she would have nothing to do
with the Third International, and no talk about dictatorships—unless
it was her own dictatorship, that was going to see to it
that “The Young Student” didn’t give the post-office authorities
or the district attorney’s office any pretext for a raid! No, they
were going to stand for a democratic solution of the social
problem; and Bunny, as usual, was going to be bossed by a
woman!</p>

<p class="pindent">It was a curious thing—the nature of women! They seemed
so gentle and impressionable; but it was the pliability of rubber,
or of water—that comes right back the way it was before!
From the very first—look at Eunice Hoyt, so set upon having
her own way! And even little Rosie Taintor—if he had married
her, he would have discovered that she had a fixed religious
conviction as to the proper style of window-curtains, and how
often they had to be laundered! And Vee Tracy, who had
given up her happiness—she would not be happy with a Roumanian
prince, Bunny knew. And Ruth and Grandma, in the
matter of the war! And Bertie, so hell-bent upon getting into
fashionable society, in spite of having been born a mule-driver’s
daughter! And now here was Rachel Menzies, and Bunny
knew exactly the situation—it would break her heart to give
up the little paper, she had adopted it with the passion of a
mother for a child; but she would walk out of the office in a
moment, if ever Bunny should fall victim to the Communist
process of “boring from within.”</p>

<h3>IV</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bertie arrived in Angel City a week behind her brother,
and afforded him still more evidence of the unchangeable nature
of femininity. Bertie had come to get her share of the estate,
and she went after it with the single-mindedness of a rabbit-hound.
Bertie knew a lawyer—her kind of lawyer, another
rabbit-hound—and she saw him the day of her arrival; and then
Bunny must come to this lawyer’s office, and with the help of
Bertie and a stenographer have the insides of his mind turned
out and recorded: exactly what Dad had said about his arrangements
with Mrs. Alyse Huntington Forsythe Olivier—Dad
hadn’t said a word about it to Bertie, alas, nor to anyone
else; he had made a will, of course, and that infamous woman
had destroyed it—Bertie knew that with the certainty of
God.</p>

<p class="pindent">And then, everything else about Dad’s affairs that Bunny
could recall; where he had kept his money and his papers, what
secret hiding-place for stocks and bonds he may have had, what
he had spent, so far as Bunny could guess, who had been in his
confidence. And then the statements which Vernon Roscoe
rendered; and all the files of Dad’s correspondence with Verne;
and the trusted young executives—Bolling and Heimann and
Simmons and the rest; and the bankers and their clerks; and
Dad’s secretary whom Bertie had brought back from Paris
with her—a veritable mountain of detail, and Bunny was required
to attend all the sessions, and be just as much a rabbit-hound
as the rest. He told himself that it was his duty to
the movement, which so badly needed the aid of a “fat
angel”!</p>

<p class="pindent">Right at the outset, there was one bitter pill that Bertie had
to swallow. Her lawyer advised her that there was no chance
of depriving Mrs. Alyse Ross of her half of the estate. Bunny’s
testimony was worth, in law, precisely nothing; and so, unless
there should be found another will, they must accept the inevitable,
and combine with the widow to get as much as possible
out of Vernon Roscoe. Mrs. Ross’s Paris lawyers had named
some very high priced lawyers in Angel City as their representatives,
and Bertie had to swallow her rage and admit these
men to their counsels.</p>

<p class="pindent">There were troubles enough to need the very highest-priced
lawyers. Accountants were put to work on the books of
J. Arnold Ross, and on the statements rendered by his partner,
and in a few days there began to emerge out of the tangle
one colossal fact: over and above all the money that Dad had
put into new business ventures with Verne and others, above
all the cash which he had handled through his bank, there was
more than ten million dollars’ worth of stocks and bonds which
had disappeared without a trace. Verne declared that these
securities had been taken by Dad, and used by him for purposes
unknown; and Bertie declared that was idiocy, and that
Vernon Roscoe was the biggest thief in all history. Having
access to Dad’s safe deposit box, he had simply helped himself
to the contents. And with rage Bertie turned upon her brother,
asserting that he was to blame—Verne knew that Bunny would
use his money to try to overturn society, and so it was only
common sense to keep him down.</p>

<p class="pindent">Nor could Bunny deny that this sounded reasonable. It
was easy to imagine Verne saying to himself that Bunny was
a social danger, and Bertie a social waster, and the widow
a poor half-wit, while he, Verne, was a capable business man,
who would use those securities for the proper purpose—to
bring more oil out of the ground. Learning of Dad’s death,
Verne had quietly transferred the securities from Dad’s strong
box to his own, before the state inheritance tax commissioner
came along to make his records! Verne wouldn’t consider that
stealing, but simply common sense—the same as taking the
naval reserves away from a government which hadn’t intelligence
enough to develop them.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now Bertie wanted to start a law-suit against her father’s
partner, and put him on the stand and make him tell everything
about his affairs; and Bunny, with the help of the lawyers,
had to argue with her, and bear the brunt of her rage. So far,
Verne had been careful to put nothing into writing; and when
he took the stand, he would have a story fixed up to leave them
helpless. He could say that Dad had given him the securities,
and how could they disprove it? He could say that Dad had
taken the securities, unknown to his partner, and lost the money
on the stock market—how could they disprove that? Even if
they traced the sales of Dad’s securities through Verne’s brokers,
they would gain nothing, because Verne could say that he had
turned over the money to Dad, or that he had been authorized
to invest it, and had lost it—a hundred different tales he could
invent! “Then we’ve simply got to take what that scoundrel
allows us!” cried Bertie; and the lawyers agreed that was the
situation. Being themselves on a percentage basis, their advice
was sincere!</p>

<p class="pindent">Then an incident that multiplied the bitterness between
Bertie and her brother. Bunny went to the storage warehouse
where his belongings had been put away, and in an atlas that
his father had occasionally consulted he came upon five liberty
bonds for ten thousand dollars each. It was some money Dad
had been keeping handy—possibly to bribe the officers in case
he should be caught; anyhow, here it was, and Bunny would
have been free to consider it a part of the million which Dad
had tried to give him in Paris. But he haughtily decided that
he would not join in plundering the estate; he would turn
the bonds in, to be counted as part of the assets.</p>

<p class="pindent">But he made the mistake of telling Bertie about it—and oh,
what a riot! The imbecile, to make Alyse and her lawyers a
present of twenty-five thousand dollars! Instead of quietly
dividing with his sister, and holding his mouth! That twenty-five
thousand became to Bertie a thing of more importance than
all the millions that Verne had got away with; these bonds
were something tangible—or almost tangible—until Bunny took
them out of her reach, and made them a present to those greedy
vultures! And right when both of them needed cash, and were
having to go to one of their father’s bankers to borrow money
on the basis of their claims to the estate.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bertie raved and stormed, and Bunny, to get it over with,
took the bonds to the bank and turned them in; and after that
Bertie never forgave him, she would mention his imbecility
every time they were alone. She was making herself ill with
all this hatred and fuming; she would sit up half the night
poring over figures, and then she couldn’t sleep for excitement.
Like all young society ladies, she set much store by the freshness
of her skin and its freedom from wrinkles; but now she
was throwing away her charms, and making herself pale and
haggard. In after years she would be going to beauty specialists
and having the corners of her mouth lifted, and the skin of
her face treated with chemicals and peeled off—because now
she could not control her fury of disappointment, that she was
to get only a paltry one or two million, instead of the glorious
ten or fifteen million she had been confident of some day
possessing.</p>

<h3>V</h3>

<p class="pindent">Rachel had published a brief article about Bunny’s return
from abroad, quoting him as saying that he intended to use his
inheritance for the benefit of the movement. And this statement
had attracted the attention of a bright young newspaper
woman, who had written a facetious article:</p>

<p class="line" style="text-align:center;margin-top:1em;margin-bottom:1em;">MILLIONAIRE RED TO SAVE SOCIETY</p>

<p class="pindent">And now it appeared that there were a great many people
who had ideas as to how to save society, and they all wanted
to see Bunny, and waited for him in the lobby of his hotel.
One had a sure cure for cancer, and another a perpetual motion
machine actually working; one wanted to raise bullfrogs for
their legs, and another to raise skunks for their skins. There
were dozens who wanted to prevent the next war, and several
who wanted to start colonies; there were many with different
ways of bringing about Socialism, and several great poets and
philosophers with manuscripts, and one to whom God had
revealed Himself—the bearer of this message was six-feet-four
and broad in proportion, and he towered over Bunny and
whispered in an awe-stricken voice that the Words which God
had spoken had been set down and locked in a safe, and no
human eye ever had beheld them, or ever would. Several others
wrote that they were not able to call because they were unjustly
confined to asylums, but if Bunny would get them out they
would deliver their messages to the world through him.</p>

<p class="pindent">There was one more “nut,” and his name was J. Arnold
Ross—no longer “junior.” He had a plan, which he had been
turning over and over in his mind; and now he gathered his
friends to get their reaction. Old Chaim Menzies, who had
been a long time in the movement, and watched most of its
mistakes; Chaim was working in a clothing shop, as usual,
and giving his spare time to getting up meetings. And Jacob
Menzies, the pale student—Jacob had got a job teaching school
for a year, but then he had been found out, and now was selling
insurance. And Harry Seager, who was growing walnuts, and
escaping the boycotts. And Peter Nagle, who was helping his
father run a union plumbing business in an open shop city, and
spending his earnings on a four-page tabloid monthly ridiculing
God. And Gregor Nikolaieff, who had done his Socialist duty
working for a year in a lumber camp, and was now assistant
to an X-ray operator in a hospital. And Dan Irving, who had
come from Washington at Bunny’s expense—these six people
sat down with Rachel and Bunny at a dinner party in a private
dining-room, to discuss how to save society with a million
dollars.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny explained with becoming modesty that he was not
putting forth his plan as the best of all possible plans, but
merely as the best for him. He wasn’t going to evade the issue
by giving his money away, putting off the job on other people;
he had learned this much from Dad, that money by itself is
nothing, to accomplish anything takes money plus management.
Moreover, Bunny himself wanted something to do; he was tired
of just looking on, and talking. He had thought for a long
time about a big paper, but he had no knowledge of journalism,
and would only be a blunderer. The one thing he did know
was young people; he had been to college, and knew what a
college ought to be, and wasn’t.</p>

<p class="pindent">“What we’re doing—Rachel and Jacob and the rest of us
Ypsels—is trying to work on young minds; but the trouble is,
we only get them a few hours in the week, and the things that
count for most in their lives are the enemy’s—I mean the
schools, the job, the movies—everything. So I want to get
some students together for a complete life, twenty-four hours
a day; and see if we can’t build a Socialist discipline, a personal
life, with service to the cause as its goal. Rachel will
agree with me in this—I don’t know if anyone else will—I think
one reason the movement suffers is that we haven’t made the
new moral standards that we need. Our own members, many
of them, are personally weak; the women have to have silk
stockings and look like the bourgeoisie, and their idea of freedom
is to adopt the bad habits of the men. If the movement really
meant enough to Socialists, they wouldn’t have to spend money
for tobacco, and booze, and imitation finery.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Dat let’s me out!” said old Chaim Menzies, who had
already lighted his ten-cent cigar.</p>

<p class="pindent">The substance of what Bunny wanted was a labor college
on a tract of land somewhere out in the country; but instead
of spending his million on steel and concrete, he wanted to
begin in tents, and have all the buildings put up by the labor
of the students and teachers. Everybody on the place was
to have four hours’ manual labor and four of class work daily;
and they were all to wear khaki, and have no fashionable society.
Bunny had the idea of going out among the colleges and high
schools, and talking to little groups of students, and here and
there seducing one away from football and fraternities to a new
dedication. Also the labor unions would be invited to select
promising young men and women. It was a thing that should
grow fast, and take little money, because, with the exception
of building materials, everything could be produced on the
place; they would have a farm, and a school of domestic arts—in
short, teach all the necessary trades, and provide four hours’
honest work of some sort for all students who wanted to come.</p>

<h3>VI</h3>

<p class="pindent">What did they think about it? Chaim Menzies was, as
always, the first to speak. Perhaps his feelings had been hurt
by the reference to tobacco; anyhow, he said it looked to him
like it vas anodder colony; you didn’t change a colony by calling
it a college, and a colony vas de vorst trap you could set for de
movement. “You git people to go off and live by demselves,
different from de rest of de vorkers, and vedder dey are comfortable
or vedder dey ain’t—and dey von’t be!—all de time
dey are tinking about someting else but de class struggle out in
de vorld.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“That’s quite true,” said Bunny. “But we shan’t be so
far from the world, and the purpose of our training will
be, not the colony, but the movement outside, and how to
help it.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“De people vot are going to help de movement has got to be
in it every hour. You git dem out vun mont’ and dey are no
good any more; dey have got some sort of graft den, someting
easy, dey are no longer vorkers.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But this isn’t going to be so easy, Comrade Chaim——”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Listen to him! He is going to git nice young college ladies
and gentlemen to come and live lives dat vill not seem easy
to de vorkers!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You might as well admit it, Bunny,” put in Harry Seager.
“You’ll have a nice polite place, with all the boys and girls wearing
William Morris costumes. They’ll work earnestly for a
while, but they’ll never be efficient, and if you really have any
buildings put up, or any food raised, you’ll have regulation
hard-fisted workingmen to do it. I know, because we’re picking
walnuts now!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I don’t want a polite place,” said Bunny. “I want a gymnasium
where people train for the class struggle; and if we
can’t have discipline any other way, how about this as part of
the course—every student is pledged to go to jail for not less
than thirty days.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Attaboy!” cried Peter Nagle. “Now you’re talking!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Vot is he going to do—break de speed laws?” inquired
Chaim, sarcastically.</p>

<p class="pindent">“He’s going into Angel City and picket in a strike. Or he’s
going to hold Socialist meetings on street-corners until some
cop picks him up. You don’t need me to tell you how to get
arrested in the class struggle, Comrade Chaim.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, but he might run into some judge dat vould not understand
de college regulation, and might give him six mont’s.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, that’s a chance we’ll have to take; the point is simply,
no senior student is in good social standing until he or she has
been in jail for at least thirty days in a class struggle case.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“And the teachers?” demanded Gregor Nikolaieff.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Once every three years, or every five years for the
teachers.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“And the founder! How often for the founder?” Peter
clamored in glee; but Dan Irving said the founder would have
to wait until he had got rid of his money.</p>

<p class="pindent">They argued back and forth. Could you interest young
people in the idea of self-discipline? Would your danger be
in setting the standard too easy, so that you wouldn’t accomplish
much, or in setting it too high, so that you wouldn’t have
any students? Bunny, the young idealist, was for setting it
high; and Harry Seager said that people would volunteer more
quickly to die than they would to get along without tobacco.
And he wanted to know, what were they going to do about the
Communists. Harry was no politician any more, he was a
social revolutionist, and only waiting for the day of action.
Regardless of what Socialist party members might wish, they
couldn’t keep Bolshevik students out of a college, and even if
they did, the ideas would bust in.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny answered by setting forth his ideal of the open mind.
Why couldn’t the students do their own educating, and make
their own decisions? Let the teachers give the information
they were asked for: and then let the students thresh it out—every
class-room an open forum, and no loyalty except to
research and freedom? They were all willing to admit that
there would be no use starting a sectarian institution, to advocate
one set of doctrines and exclude the others. Also, it took
a partisan of each doctrine to set it forth fairly. So then, here
was Bunny pinning them down: “Chaim, would you be willing
for Harry to explain his ideas to your class? Harry, would you
give Chaim a chance to talk?” Bunny could see his own job—the
arbitrator who kept these warring fractions out of each
other’s hair!</p>

<p class="pindent">Then said Chaim, the skeptic, “I vant to know, vot are you
going to do about sex?”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny admitted that this worried him. “I suppose we’ll
have to conform to bourgeois standards.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, my God!” cried Peter Nagle. “Let the bourgeoisie
begin!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Jacob Menzies, the student, had just been reading a book
about Ruskin, the old-time Socialist colony in Tennessee. It
was the sex problem which had broken up that colony, he
declared; and his father chimed in, “It vill break up any colony
dat ever exists under capitalism! Dere is only vun vay you
can make vun man live vit vun voman all his life, and dat is to
shut dem up in a house togedder and never let dem out. But
if you let dem get vit odder couples, den right avay vun man
finds he vants some odder voman but de right vun.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But then,” said Dan Irving, “according to bourgeois standards,
they get a divorce.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Sure ting!” said Chaim. “But not in a Socialist colony!
If dey vould do it in a colony, it vould be a free love nest, and
you vould be on de front page of de papers, and de American
Legion come and bust you in de snoot!”</p>

<h3>VII</h3>

<p class="pindent">The upshot of the debate was that no one of them was sure
the enterprise would be a success, but all the young ones were
willing to pitch in and help, if Bunny was determined for a try.
And Bunny said that he had already been looking about for a
site, with good land and plenty of water, somewhere about fifty
miles from Angel City; he was going to make a first payment
on land as soon as he could get the cash, and meantime they
would work out the details. He would give his own time for
three years to getting the institution on its feet, and if it proved
possible to develop the right discipline and morale, he would
make the institution self-directing, and furnish whatever money
could be used effectively. They would need teachers, organizers,
and business managers, so there were jobs for all.</p>

<p class="pindent">And meantime, Bunny must go back to the interviews with
lawyers, to try to save as much as possible of the estate. It
meant long wrangles with Bertie, for their affairs were in a
snarl, and getting worse every day. Verne insisted that Ross
Operating must have funds to meet its current expenses; and
did they want him to assess the stock, and force the estate to
raise the money, or did they want him to buy the lease to the
Ross Junior tract, the only asset of Ross Operating, except the
claims against the insurance companies? Verne could do what
he pleased, because the directors of the concern were himself
and his trusted young executives. He was proposing to form
another concern, the Paradise Operating Company—with other
trusted young executives as directors, and sell himself the lease,
which had twenty years still to run, and was worth nobody
could tell how many millions of dollars, for the sum of six
hundred thousand!</p>

<p class="pindent">All right then, said Verne, let the estate do better. Bertie
took up the challenge, and exchanged long cables with her
husband in Paris, and went out among her rich friends—to
make the embarrassing discovery that people who have six
hundred thousand dollars in cash do a lot of investigating before
they spend it, and then want to hog the whole thing for themselves.
Bertie spent much worry and hard work—and what
made her most furious was that she couldn’t do it for herself
alone, but had to do it for the whole estate, giving the incompetent
Bunny and the infamous Alyse the benefit of her labors.
She got a proposition; and then the lawyers of the infamous
Alyse turned up with another proposition; and Bertie declared
they were bigger thieves than Verne.</p>

<p class="pindent">And then Ross Consolidated needed money, and Verne was
going to assess that stock—meaning to drive the estate to the
wall and plunder it of everything. Presently he made a proposition—there
was the Roumanian oil venture, into which Dad
had put a million and a quarter in cash. Verne offered to purchase
this back for the same amount, and the necessary papers
were prepared—the heirs all had to consent to the sale, and they
did so, and then the court must approve the proposal. This
meant delay, and meanwhile the estate was delinquent in the
assessment on the Ross Consolidated stock, and this stock was
to be sold out. The money from the Roumanian deal was to
save it, but to the consternation of the lawyers, the court refused
its consent to this deal. There were technical points involved—the
court questioned the authority of Mrs. Alyse Ross’ lawyers,
and demanded her personal signature, attested in France. In
short, the estate couldn’t get the money in time for the sale,
and it was Vernon Roscoe who bought the Ross Consolidated
stock at a bargain.</p>

<p class="pindent">Oh, how Bertie raved and swore—the veritable daughter of
a mule-driver! Verne, the filthy swine, had put that trick over
on them! Not content with having stolen Dad’s papers, he had
diddled them along like this, and got one of his crooked judges
to hold up the order, so that he might grab another plum!
Bertie threatened to take a gun to Verne’s office and shoot him
down like a dog; but what she really did was to abuse her
brother, who had been such a fool as to make a mortal enemy
out of the most powerful man they knew.</p>

<p class="pindent">It taught them a lesson. They would get themselves out of
Verne’s clutches, get rid of everything that he controlled. Dad
had put nearly a million into a concern called Anglo-California,
which was to develop the big Mosul concession; and the lawyers
of Alyse got an offer for that stock, but it included time payments,
and Bertie wouldn’t agree to that, and the lawyers
wouldn’t agree to Verne’s cash offer, and Bertie was in terror
lest Verne would do some more hocus-pocus—organize an
Anglo-California Operating Company, and lease the Mosul
tract to it, and swipe all the profits!</p>

<p class="pindent">Amid which wrangling came a letter from Alyse to Bunny.
She was sure that he would not let horrid money troubles come
between him and her, and break their sacred bond, the memories
of dear Jim. Alyse had gone to consult her favorite
medium, immediately upon her arrival in Paris, and at the third
seance Jim had “manifested,” and ever since then Alyse had
had his words taken down by a stenographer, and here was a
bulky record, big as the transcript of a legal trial, and tied with
blue ribbons of feminine elegance. Alyse hoped that Bunny
had not failed to consult a medium, and would send her whatever
dear Jim had had to say in his old home.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny went through the record, and it gave him a strange
thrill. There were pages and pages of sentimental rubbish
about this happy shore and this new state of bliss, with angel’s
wings and the music of harps, and tell my dear ones that I am
with them, but I am wiser now, and my dear Bunny must know
that I understand and forgive—all stuff that might have come
out of the conscious or subconscious mind of a sentimental
elderly lady or of a rascally medium. But then came something
that made the young man catch his breath: “I want my dear
Bunny to know that it is really his father who speaks to him,
and he will remember the man who got all the land for us,
and that he had two gold teeth in the front of his mouth, and
Bunny said that somebody would rob his grave.” How in the
name of all the arts of magic was a medium in Paris to know
about a joke which Bunny had made to his father about Mr.
Hardacre, the agent who had bought them options on ranches
in Paradise, California?</p>

<p class="pindent">By golly, it was something to think about! Could it really
be that Dad was not gone forever, but had just disappeared
somewhere, and could be got hold of again? Bunny would go
for a walk to think about it; and through the streets of Angel
City he would hear the voice of Eli Watkins booming over the
radio. Eli’s Tabernacle was packed day and night, with the
tens of thousands who crowded to see the prophet who had
been floated over the sea by the angels, and had brought back
a feather to prove it; all California heard Eli’s voice, proclaiming
the ancient promise: “Behold, I shew you a mystery; we
shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed, in a moment, in
the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump; for the trumpet shall
sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall
be changed.”</p>

<div><h1>CHAPTER XXI<br /> <span class="sub-head">THE HONEYMOON</span></h1></div>

<h3>I</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny was looking for a site for the labor college. It was
a much pleasanter job than seeking oil lands; you could give
some attention to the view, the woods and the hills, and other
things you really cared about; also it wasn’t such a gamble,
because you could really find out about the water supply, and
have a chemical analysis of the soil. It meant taking long rides
in the country; and since Rachel was to be one of the bosses,
it was good sense for her to go along. They had time to talk—and
a lot to talk about, since they were going to take charge of
a bunch of young radicals, boys and girls of all ages—twenty-four
hours a day.</p>

<p class="pindent">They had looked at a couple of places, and there was another
farther from the city, and Bunny remarked, “If we go to that,
we’ll be late getting home.” Rachel answered, “If it’s too late,
we can go to some hotel, and finish up in the morning,” said
Bunny, “That would start the gossips.” But Rachel was not
afraid of gossips, so she declared.</p>

<p class="pindent">They drove to the new site. It was near a village called
Mount Hope, in a little valley, with the plowed land running up
the slopes of half a dozen hills. It was early November, and
the rains had fallen, and the new grain had sprouted, and there
were lovely curving surfaces that might have been the muscles
of great giants lying prone—giants with skins of the softest
bright green velvet. There were orchards, and artesian water
with a pumping plant, and a little ranch-house—the people had
apparently gone to town, so the visitors could wander about
and look at everything, and make a find—a regular airdrome of
a barn, gorgeous with revolutionary red paint! “Oh, Bunny,
here’s our meeting place, all ready made! We have only to put
a floor in and we can have a dance the opening night!” Imagine
Rachel thinking about dancing!</p>

<p class="pindent">They climbed one of the slopes, and here was a park, with
dark live oaks and pale grey sycamores, and a carpet of new
grass under foot. The valley opened out to the west, and the
sun had just gone down, in a sky of flaming gold; the quail
were giving their last calls, and deep down in Bunny’s heart
was an ache of loneliness—because quail meant Dad, and those
beautiful hills of Paradise, and happiness he had dreamed in
vain.</p>

<p class="pindent">Now it was Rachel dreaming. “Oh, Bunny, this is too
lovely! It’s exactly what we want! Mount Hope College—we
couldn’t have made up a better name!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny laughed. “We don’t want to buy a name. We must
take samples of the soil.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“How many acres did you say?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Six hundred and forty, a little over a hundred in cultivation.
That’s more than we’ll be able to take care of for quite
a while.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“And only sixty-eight thousand! That’s a bargain!”
Rachel had learned to think on Bunny’s imperial scale, since
she had been racing over the state in his fast car, inspecting
millionaire play-grounds and real estate promoters’ paradises.</p>

<p class="pindent">“The price is not bad,” said Bunny, “if we are sure about
the soil and water.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You could see the state of the growing things, before it
got dark.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Maybe so. We’ll come back in the morning, and have a
talk with the ranchman. Perhaps he’s a tenant, and will tell
us the truth.” Not for nothing had Bunny spent his boyhood
buying lands with his shrewd old father!</p>

<h3>II</h3>

<p class="pindent">Twilight veiled this valley of new dreams, and across the
way the hills were purple shadows. Bunny said, “There’s just
one thing worrying me about our plan now: I’m afraid there’s
going to be a scandal.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“How do you mean?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You and me being together all the time, and going off and
being missing at night.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, Bunny, what nonsense!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No, really, I’m worried. I told Peter Nagle we’d have to
conform to bourgeois standards, and we’re beginning wrong.
My Aunt Emma is a bourgeois standard, and she would never
approve of this, and neither would your mother. We ought
to go and get married.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, Bunny!” She was staring at him, but it was too
dark to reveal any possible twinkle in his eyes. “Are you
joking?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Rachel,” he said, “will you take that much trouble to preserve
the good name of our institution?”</p>

<p class="pindent">He came a step nearer, and she stammered, “Bunny, you
don’t—you don’t mean that!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I don’t see any other way—really.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Bunny—no!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Why not?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Because—you don’t want to marry a Jewess!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Good Lord!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Don’t misunderstand me, I’m proud of my race. But all
your friends would think it was a mistake.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“My friends, Rachel? Who the devil are my friends—except
in the radical movement? And where would the radical
movement be without the Jews?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But, Bunny—your sister!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“My sister is not my friend. Neither did she ask me to
pick out her husband.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Rachel stood, twisting her fingers together nervously.
“Bunny, do you really—you aren’t just speaking on an impulse?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, I suppose it’s an impulse. I seem to have to blurt
it out. But it’s an impulse I’ve had a good many times.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“And you won’t be sorry?”</p>

<p class="pindent">He laughed. “It depends upon your answer.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Stop joking, please—you frighten me. I can’t afford to
let you make a mistake. It’s so dreadfully serious!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But why take it that way?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I can’t help it; you don’t know how a woman feels. I
don’t want you to do something out of a generous impulse, and
then you’d feel bound, and you wouldn’t be happy. You
oughtn’t to marry a girl out of the sweat-shops.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Good God, Rachel, my father was a mule-driver.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes, but you’re Anglo-Saxon; away back somewhere your
ancestors were proud of themselves. You ought to marry a
tall, fair woman that will stay beautiful all her life, and look
right in a drawing-room. Jewish women bear two or three
children, and then they get fat, and you wouldn’t like me.”</p>

<p class="pindent">He burst out laughing. “I have attended the weddings of
some of those tall, fair Anglo-Saxon women; and the priest
pronounces, very solemnly, ‘Into this holy estate the two persons
now present come now to be joined. If any man can show
just cause, why they may not lawfully be joined together, let
him now speak, or else hereafter forever hold his peace.’ ”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Bunny,” she pleaded, “I’m trying to face the facts!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, dear, if you must be solemn—it happens that I never
loved a fair woman. The two I picked out to live with were
dark, the same as you. It must be nature’s effort to mix things.
I suppose you know about Vee Tracy?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Yes.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Well, Vee had the looks all right, and she’ll keep them—she
makes a business of it. But you see, it didn’t do me any
good, she threw me over for a Roumanian prince.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Why, Bunny?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Because I wouldn’t give up the radical movement.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, how I hated that woman!”</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a note of melodrama in Rachel’s usually serene
voice, and Bunny was curious. “You did hate her?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I could have choked her!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Because she struck you?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“No! Because I knew she was trying to take you out of
the movement; and I thought for sure she would. She had
everything I didn’t have.”</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny was thinking—by golly, it was queer! Vee had
known it—and he hadn’t! Oh, these women! Aloud he said,
politely, “No, she didn’t have quite everything.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“What is there that I have, Bunny? What do I mean to
you?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I’ll tell you—I’m so tired of being quarreled with. You
can’t have any idea—my whole life, since I began to think for
myself, has been one wrangle with the people who loved me, or
thought they had a right to direct me. You can’t imagine what
a sense of peace I get when I think of being with you; it’s like
settling down into nice soft cushions. I’ve hesitated about it,
because of course I’m not very proud of the Vee Tracy episode,
and I didn’t know if you’d take a man second-hand—or third-hand
it really is, because there was a girl while I was in high
school. I’m telling you my drawbacks, to balance your getting
fat!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Bunny, I don’t care about the other women—they will
always be after you, of course. I was heartsick about Miss
Tracy, because I knew she was a selfish woman, and I was
afraid you’d find it out too late, and be wrecked. At least, I
told myself that was it—I suppose the truth is I was just green
with jealousy.”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Why, Rachel! You mean that you love me?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“As if any woman could help loving you! The question is,
do you love me?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“I do—yes, truly!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“But Bunny—” there was a little catch in her voice. “You
don’t show it!”</p>

<p class="pindent">So then he realized that he had been wasting a lot of time!
He had to take only one more step, and put his arms about her,
and there she was, sobbing on his shoulder, as if her heart
would break. “Oh, Bunny, Bunny! Can I believe it?”</p>

<p class="pindent">So to make her believe it, he began to kiss her. She had
been such a sedate and proper little lady, such a manager in
the office and all that, he had been in awe of her; but now he
made the discovery that she was exactly like the other women
who had been in love with him; as soon as she was sure that
she might let herself go, that it was not some blunder, or some
crazy dream—why, there she was, clinging to him in a sort of
daze of happiness, half laughing, half weeping. As he kissed
her, there was mingled in his emotion the memory of how brave
she had been, and how loyal, and how honest; yes, it was worth
while making a girl like that happy! To mingle love with
those other emotions, that appeared to be safe! And she was
just as passionate as either Eunice or Vee had been, not a
particle more sedate or reticent! “Oh, Bunny, I love you so!
I love you so!” She whispered it in the darkness, and her
embraces said more than her words.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Dear Rachel!” he said, with a happy little laugh. “If you
feel that way, let’s go find a preacher or a justice of the peace.”</p>

<p class="pindent">She answered, “Foolish Bunny! I want to know that you
love me, and that I’m free to love you. What do I care about
preachers or justices?”</p>

<p class="pindent">So then he caught her tighter, and their lips met in a long
kiss. If she tried to voice any more doubts, he would stop the
sounds, he would find a way to convince her! And what better
place for their love than this mysterious grove, the scene of
their future labors? Yes, they would have to buy this ranch
now, regardless of soil deficiencies! It would be a haunted
place; in after years, while the young folks had their games and
pageants in this grove, Bunny and Rachel would look on with
a secret thrill. Had it not been in ancient oak-groves that
mystic rites had been celebrated, and pledges made, and holy
powers invoked!</p>

<h3>III</h3>

<p class="pindent">They found the justice of the peace next morning; and
then they finished the inspection of the ranch, and drove back
to Angel City and made arrangements for a first payment on
the purchase price. After which they had the thrills of telling
all their friends about having got married—strictly in the
interest of the college, of course, and to avoid scandals in the
bourgeois press!</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny went to see Ruth, and tell her; and strange to say,
this embarrassed him. Bertie and Vee had planted in his mind
the idea that Ruth had been in love with him for the past ten
years; and now Rachel was certain of it; and these women had
all proved to be right about each other every time! Also, there
was a fact which he had not mentioned to Rachel: there had
been a while on the way back from Paris, when he was debating
in his mind whether it was Rachel or Ruth he was going to
invite to become his wife! He had a deep affection for Ruth,
the same still quiet feeling that she herself manifested. But the
trouble was, there was Paul. Ruth was bound by steel chains
to her brother—and that meant the Communist movement,
and so Bunny had to wrestle over that problem some more.</p>

<p class="pindent">Sooner or later you had to decide, and take your place with
one party or the other. Were you going to overthrow capitalism
by the ballot or by “direct action”? This much had
become clear to Bunny—the final decision rested with the capitalist
class. They were getting ready for the next war; and
that meant Bolshevism in all the warring nations, at the end
of the war, if not at the beginning. The Socialists would try
to prevent this war; and if they failed, then the job would be
done in Paul’s way, by the Third International. But meantime,
Bunny was drawn to the Socialists by his temperament. He
could not call for violence! If there was to be any, the other
side must begin it!</p>

<p class="pindent">Whatever Ruth may have thought or felt about the news
of his marriage, she gave no sign but of pleasure. She had
expected it, she said; Rachel was a fine girl, who agreed with
his ideas, and that was the main thing. Then she told him that
Paul was expected back tomorrow, and was to speak at a
meeting—his supporters had got him into the Labor Temple
by much diplomacy, and he would have a chance to tell the
workingmen about what he had seen in Russia. Bunny and
Rachel must come and hear him; and Bunny said they
would.</p>

<p class="pindent">This was the Sunday before election day, the end of a long
political campaign. The workers had heard no end of appeals
for their votes—but here was something different, more important
than any election issues. However hostile the leaders
of labor might be, it was impossible for the rank and file to
resist the contagion of this miracle that was happening on the
other side of the world—a vast empire where the workers ruled,
and were making their own laws and their own culture. Paul
was fresh from these scenes; his words were vivid, he brought
the things before your eyes: the red army, and the red schools,
and the red papers, the white terror, and the resistance to
capitalist siege on ten thousand miles of front.</p>

<p class="pindent">Oh, the fury of the capitalist press next day! They didn’t
report the meeting, but they published protests about it, and
stormed in editorials. The LaFollette “reds” were bad enough,
but this was an intolerable outrage—an avowed Moscow agent,
who had been expelled from France, permitted to hold a meeting
in Angel City and incite union labor to red riot and insurrection!
What was our police department for? Where were our patriotic
societies and our American Legion and our other forces of law
and order?</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny called up Ruth next morning; he wanted to see Paul,
to talk about the proposed college. Ruth said that Paul had
gone down to the harbor, to see about addressing meetings of
the longshoremen. These men had had a big strike while
Bunny was abroad, and had taken their full course in capitalist
government. Six hundred of them had been swept up off the
street, for the crime of marching and singing, and had been
packed into tanks with all ventilation shut off, to reduce them
to silence. A score of the leaders had been sent to state’s
prison for ten or twenty years for “criminal syndicalism”; so
the rest ought to be ready to listen to the Communist doctrine,
that the workers had to master the capitalist state. There was
to be an entertainment that night in the I. W. W. hall at the
harbor; there would be music and refreshments, and Paul
thought it would be a good chance to get acquainted with the
leaders. Bunny said that he and Rachel were going down to
Beach City, and they might run over and bring Paul back with
them.</p>

<h3>IV</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny had yielded to the importunities of his sister:
wouldn’t he have the decency to help out the estate in at least
one way—look into those reports which Vernon Roscoe had
rendered concerning the Prospect Hill field? Verne asserted
that more than half the wells were off production, and Bertie
suspected one more trick to rob them. Bertie wouldn’t know
an oil well off production from a hen-coop; but Bunny would
know, and couldn’t he go down there, and snoop around a bit,
and find out what other oil men thought about the field and its
prospects? Bunny took Rachel with him—she went everywhere
with her new husband, of course. They had got one of the
oldest of the Ypsels to run the magazine office, and Rachel was
just manager and editor, very high and mighty. Bunny was a
one-arm driver again, and the automobile was lopsided, and
Rachel was nervous when he drove fast, because the gods are
jealous of such rapture as hers.</p>

<p class="pindent">Rachel had never seen an oil field at close range. So Bunny
took her to the “discovery well,” and told how Mr. Culver had
had his ear-drums destroyed, trying to stop the flow with his
head. He showed her the first well that Dad had drilled, and
on which Bunny had helped to keep the mud flowing. That
had been the beginning of Dad’s big wealth; he and perhaps a
score of others had got rich, and to balance it, there were in
Beach City many thousands of people who had their homes
plastered with mortgages, representing losses from the buying
of “units.” That was the way most of the money had been
made in Prospect Hill—selling paper instead of oil. It was a
fact, as Paul had cited, that more money had been put into the
ground than had been taken out of it. Here had been a treasure
of oil that, wisely drilled, would have lasted thirty years: but
now the whole field was “on the pump,” and hundreds of wells
producing so little that it no longer paid to pump them. One
sixth of the oil had been saved, and five-sixths had been wasted!</p>

<p class="pindent">That was your blessed “competition,” which they taught you
to love and honor in the economics classes! Another aspect of
it was those frightful statistics, that of all the thousands of men
who had worked here, seventy-three out of every hundred had
been killed or seriously injured during the few years of the
field’s life! It was literally true that capitalist industry was a
world war going on all the time, unheeded by the newspapers.</p>

<p class="pindent">Bunny did his checking up of the Ross wells; he couldn’t
do any “snooping,” because some of the old hands knew him,
and came up to greet him. He talked with a number of men,
and found their reports about the same as Verne’s. Then,
towards evening, as he and Rachel were getting ready to leave,
they came to a bungalow, dingy and forlorn, black with oil stains
and grey with dust, with a storage-tank in the back yard, and
a derrick within ten feet on the next lot, and on the other side
a shed which had housed the engine of another derrick. Bunny
stopped, and read the number on the front of the bungalow,
5746 Los Robles Blvd. “Here’s where Mrs. Groarty lives!
Paul’s aunt—it was in that house we had the meeting about the
lease, and I first heard Paul’s voice through the window there!”</p>

<p class="pindent">He told the story of that night, describing the characters
and how they had behaved. Paul said it was a little oil fight,
and the world war had been a big oil fight, and they were exactly
the same. While they were talking, the door opened, and there
emerged a stout, red-faced woman in a dirty wrapper, and
Bunny exclaimed, “There’s Mrs. Groarty!” Out he hopped—“Hello,
Mrs. Groarty!” How many years it had been since
she had seen him; he had to tell her who he was, that little boy
grown up, and with a wife—well, well, would you believe it,
how time does fly! And so Mr. Ross was dead—Mrs. Groarty’s
husband had read the sad news out of the paper. She knew that
he had got to be very rich, so she was thrilled by this visit, and
invited them in, but all in a flutter because her house wasn’t in
order.</p>

<p class="pindent">They went in, because Bunny wanted Rachel to see that
staircase, and to have a laugh on her afterwards, because she
wouldn’t notice anything, but would think the staircase led to
a second story—in a one-story bungalow! There was the
room—not a thing changed, except that it seemed to have shrunk
in size, and the shine was all gone. There was the window
where Bunny had stood while he listened to Paul’s whispered
voice. And, by golly, there was “The Ladies’ Guide, a Practical
Handbook of Gentility,” still on the centre-table, faded and
fly-specked gold and blue! Along side was a stack of what
appeared to be legal papers, a pile at least eight inches high,
and fastened with ribbons and a seal. Mrs. Groarty caught his
glance at it; or perhaps it was just that she was longing for
someone to tell her troubles to. “That’s the papers about our
lot,” she said. “I just took them away from the lawyer, he takes
our money and he don’t do nothing.”</p>

<p class="pindent">So then she was started, and Rachel continued her education
in oil history. The Groarty’s had entered a community agreement,
and then withdrawn from it and entered a smaller one:
then they had leased to Sliper and Wilkins, and been sold by
those “lease-hounds” to a syndicate; and this syndicate had been
plundered and thrown into bankruptcy; after which the lease
had been bought by a man whom Mrs. Groarty described as
the worst skunk of them all, and he had gone and got a lot of
claims and liens against the property, and actually, people were
trying to take some money away from the Groartys now, though
they had never got one cent out of the well—and look at the
way they had had to live all these years!</p>

<p class="pindent">Here was the record of these transactions, community agreements
and leases and quit-claim deeds and notices of release
and notices of cancellation of lease, and mortgages, and sales
of “percents,” and mechanic’s liens and tax receipts and notices
of expiration of agreement—not less than four hundred pages
of typewritten material, something like a million and a half of
words, mostly legal jargon—“the undersigned hereby agrees”
and “in consideration of the premises herein set forth,” and “in
view of the failure of the party of the first part to carry out
the said operations by the aforesaid date,” and so on—it made
you dizzy just to turn the pages. And all this to settle the
ownership of what was expected to be ten thousand barrels
of oil, and had turned out to be less than one thousand! Here
you saw where the money had gone—pale typists shut up in
offices all day transcribing copies of this verbiage, and pale
clerks checking and rechecking them, or looking them up, or
recording them—there were men up in Angel City who had
become mighty magnates by employing thousands of men and
women slaves, to transcribe and check and recheck and look
up and record literally millions of documents like these!</p>

<h3>V</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny and Rachel had dinner, and then strolled on the
waterfront; it was one of those warm nights that come now
and then in Southern California; there was a moon on the sea,
and a long pier with gleaming lights, and the sound of an
orchestra drawing the lovers. At the entrance to the pier was
a big bare hall, owned by the city, where very proper dancing
was chaperoned by a religious city government. Bunny and his
bride danced—oh, surely it was all right to dance a little bit, in
this well chaperoned place on what ought to have been their
honeymoon!</p>

<p class="pindent">But in between the dances, while the orchestra was still,
something shook the hall, a dull, sombre blow, like distant
thunder, making the windows rattle, and jarring your feet.
“What’s that?” exclaimed Rachel. “An earthquake?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“The guns,” answered Bunny.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Guns?” And he had to explain, the fleet was practicing.
There were a score or so of battleships stationed at the harbor,
facing some unnamed enemy; and now they were at night
target-practice. You heard them now and then, day and night,
if you lived near the coast.</p>

<p class="pindent">So Rachel couldn’t dance any more then. Each time she
heard that dull boom, she saw the bodies of young men blown
into fragments. The capitalists were getting ready for their
next war; what business had the Socialists to be dancing?</p>

<p class="pindent">They drove along the boulevard which follows the harbor-front.
It is fifteen or twenty miles, and there are towns and
docks and bridges and railroad tracks and factories, and inland
the “subdivisions” for the homes of working people. It is one
of the world’s great ports in the swift making; and those who
have charge of the job, the masters of credit, see rearing before
them that monstrous spectre known as “direct action” or
“criminal syndicalism.” The “Industrial Workers of the
World” had a headquarters, where they met to discuss this
program; and the masters made incessant war upon them.</p>

<p class="pindent">The address which Ruth had given to Bunny was an obscure
street in a working-class quarter. There was a fair-sized hall,
with lights in the windows, and the sound of a piano and a
child’s voice singing. Among the cars parked along the curb
Bunny found a vacant space, and backed into it, and was just
about to step from his car, when Rachel caught him by the arm.
“Wait!” There came rushing down the street a squadron of
motor-cars, two abreast and blocking the way entirely; and from
them leaped a crowd of some fifty men, carrying weapons of
various sorts, clubs, hatchets, pieces of iron pipe. They made
a rush for the entrance, and a moment later the music ceased,
and there came the sound of shrieks, and the crash of glass
and battering of heavy blows.</p>

<p class="pindent">“They’re raiding them!” cried Bunny, and would have run
to the scene; but Rachel’s arms were flung about him, pinning
him to his seat. “No! No! Sit still! What can you do?”</p>

<p class="pindent">“My God! We must do something!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“You’re not armed, and you can’t stop a mob! You can
only get killed! Keep still!”</p>

<p class="pindent">The sounds from within had risen to a bedlam; the hall
must have been crowded, and everyone inside yelling at the top
of his lungs. And that horrible drumming of blows—you
couldn’t tell whether they were falling on furniture or on human
bodies. Bunny was almost beside himself, struggling to get
loose, and Rachel fighting like a mad thing—he had never
dreamed that she had such strength. “No, Bunny! No! For
God’s sake! For my sake! Oh, please, please!” She knew
in those dreadful minutes the terror that was to haunt the rest
of her life—that some day in this hideous class war there would
come the moment when it was her husband’s duty to get himself
killed. But not yet, not yet! Not on their honeymoon!</p>

<p class="pindent">It was like the passing of a tornado, that is gone before you
have time to realize it. The attacking party emerged from the
hall, as quickly as they had entered. They were dragging half
a dozen prisoners, and threw these into the cars, of which the
engines were still going; then down the street they went roaring,
and silence fell.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was permissible for Bunny to get out now, and run into
the hall, with Rachel at his heels. He had one thought, the
same as on that night when he had run over Mrs. Groarty’s
place, crying, “Paul! Paul!” They were certain to have taken
Paul away on that lynching party; and how could Bunny save
him?</p>

<p class="pindent">The first thing he saw, in the doorway, was a man with a
great gash across his forehead, and the blood streaming all
over him; he was staggering about, because he couldn’t see,
and crying, “The sons-o’-bitches! The sons-o’-bitches!” Near
him was another man whose hand had been slashed across,
and a woman was tearing her skirt to make a bandage. A little
girl lay on the floor, screaming in agony, and some one was
pulling off her stockings, and the raw flesh was coming with
them. “They threw her into the coffee!” said a voice in Bunny’s
ear. “Jesus Christ, they threw the kids into the boiling coffee!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Everywhere confusion, women in hysterics, or sunk upon
the floor sobbing. There was not a stick of furniture in the
place that had not been wrecked; the chairs had been split with
hatchets; the piano had been gutted, its entrails lay tangled on
the floor. Tables were overset, and dishes and crockery trampled,
and the metal urn or container in which the coffee had
been boiling had been overset, and its steaming contents running
here and there. But first they had hurled three children into
it, one after another, as their frantic parents dragged them out.
The flesh had been cooked off their legs, and they would be
crippled for life: one was a ten years old girl known as “the
wobbly song-bird;” she had a sweet treble, and sang sentimental
ballads and rebel songs, and the mob leader had jerked her from
the platform, saying, “We’ll shut your damned mouth!”</p>

<p class="pindent">What was the meaning of this raid? According to the
newspapers, it was the patriotic indignation of sailors from the
fleet. There had been an explosion on one of the battleships,
and several men had been killed, and the newspapers had printed
a story that one of the wobblies had been heard to laugh with
satisfaction. It is an ancient device of the master press. In
old Russia the “Black Hundreds” were incited by tales of
“ritual murders” committed by the Jews, Christian babies killed
for sacrifice. In Britain now the government was forging letters
attributed to the Soviet leaders, and using them to carry
an election. In America the deportations delirium had been
sanctified by a great collection of forged documents, officially
endorsed.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was a spontaneous mob, said these law and order newspapers.
But this fact was noted: on all other occasions there
had been policemen at these wobbly meetings, to take note of
criminal utterances; but this night there had been no policeman
on hand. Nor were there any afterwards; Bunny and the other
“reds” might besiege the police department and the city government,
and offer the names of the principal mob leaders, but
there would be no step taken to punish anyone for this murderous
raid!</p>

<h3>VI</h3>

<p class="pindent">Bunny didn’t expect to find Paul, but there he lay, flat on
his back, with several people bending over him. His left eye
was a mass of blood, and seemed as if destroyed by a blow;
he lay, limp and motionless, and when Bunny called his name
he did not answer. But he was alive, gasping with a kind of
snoring sound.</p>

<p class="pindent">A doctor! A doctor! There were several in the neighborhood,
and people rushed away to look for them. From the
days of Bunny’s residence in Beach City he knew the name of
a surgeon, and hurried to a phone, and was so fortunate as to
find the surgeon at home. Bunny told what had happened, and
the other said he would come at once; in the case of injury to
skull or other bones, X-ray pictures would be needed, so he
gave the name of doctors who did such work, and Bunny did
more telephoning, and arranged for one of these to be at his
laboratory and await developments. Also he ordered an
ambulance from a hospital.</p>

<p class="pindent">Then back to the hall, where Paul lay in the same condition.
Rachel had laid a clean handkerchief over the battered eye,
and put a pillow under his head. The other victims had been
carried away, and the door of the wrecked hall shut against
the curious crowd.</p>

<p class="pindent">The surgeon came, and said it was concussion of the brain.
There was evidence of a heavy blow at the base of the skull—either
Paul had been struck in the eye, and had hit the back
of his head in falling, or else he had been knocked down by
a blow from behind, and later struck or trampled over the eye.
The first thing was a picture; so the unconscious body was
taken to the X-ray laboratory, and pictures were made, and the
surgeon showed Bunny and Rachel the line of a fracture at
the base of the skull, running to the front above the oral cavity.
There was nothing to be done, it was impossible to operate in
such a place. It was a question of how the brain had been
affected, and as to that only time could tell. They must keep
the patient quiet.</p>

<p class="pindent">There was a private hospital in the town; so before long
Paul was lying on a bed, with a bandage over his eye, and his
head in a sling to avoid pressure on the injured place; and
Bunny and Rachel were sitting by the bedside, gazing mournfully.
Womanlike, Rachel was reading his thoughts. “Dear
heart, are you going to blame yourself all your life because you
didn’t rush in and get your skull broken, too?” No, he couldn’t
have prevented the harm, he knew it; but oh, why did it have
to be Paul’s brain—the best brain that Bunny had ever known!
He sat with a horrified, brooding stare.</p>

<p class="pindent">But there was another ordeal to be faced. Rachel reminded
him, “We’ve got to tell Ruth.” She offered to attend to it, to
spare his feelings. She got her brother Jacob on the phone—he
had just got home from a committee meeting, and now he
must call a taxi, and drive to Ruth’s home and bring her to
the harbor.</p>

<p class="pindent">Two hours later Ruth came running up the stairs, her face
like a mask of fright. “How is he? How is he?” When she
entered the room, and saw Paul, she stopped. “Oh, what is it?”
And when they told her—“Is he going to live?” She drew
nearer, never taking her eyes off his face. Her hands would
stretch out to him, and then draw back, because she might not
touch him; they would go out again, as if they had a will of
their own. Suddenly her knees gave way, and she sank to the
floor, and covered her face with her hands, sobbing, sobbing.</p>

<p class="pindent">They tried to comfort her, but she hardly knew they were
there. She was alone, in the dreadful corridors of grief.
Bunny, watching her, felt hot tears stealing down his cheeks.
It wasn’t natural for a girl to feel that way about a brother,
Vee had said; but Bunny knew how it was—Ruth was back in
those childhood days on the lonely hills of Paradise, when Paul
had been her only friend, a refuge from a family of fanatics,
with a father who beat her to make her think like him. Back
there she had known that Paul was a great man, and had
followed him all these years; she had watched his mind unfolding,
and learned everything she knew from it—and now, to
see it destroyed by a brute with a piece of iron pipe!</p>

<h3>VII</h3>

<p class="pindent">It was long after midnight; and Rachel sought to draw
Bunny away. There was nothing more they could do, either
for Paul or his sister. There was a small hotel a few doors
away, they would get a room there, and rest, and the hospital
nurse would notify them if there were any change. And Bunny
yielded: he must not be unfair to Rachel. He knew there was
something unnatural about his own devotion to Paul, the subjection
of his mind to everything that Paul thought, the exactness
of his memory of everything Paul had said. Yes, Bertie
had told him that, and then Vee—and now Rachel!</p>

<p class="pindent">He could not sleep. So, lying a-bed in the hotel room, he
explained it to her; how Paul had come when Bunny was
groping for something different and better in his life. Paul
had given him an ideal—something stern and hard—self-sufficiency,
independence of judgment, determination to face
life and understand it, and not be drawn away in pursuit of
money or pleasure. Bunny had not been able to follow that
ideal—no, he had lived in luxury, and gone chasing after
women; but he had had the vision, the longing to be like Paul.</p>

<p class="pindent">And then, at each new crisis in his life, Paul would come
along, a sort of standard by which Bunny could measure himself
and what he was doing, and realize how little success he was
having. Paul had taught him about the workers, and how they
felt; Paul had been the incarnation of the new, awakening
working-class. Paul’s mind had been a searchlight, illumining
the world-situation, showing Bunny what he needed to know.
Now the light was out, and Bunny would have to see by his
own feeble lantern!</p>

<p class="pindent">“Dear, he may get well,” Rachel whispered; but Bunny
moaned, no, no, he was going to die. Like a jagged flash of
lightning before his mind was that X-ray picture of the crack
at the base of Paul’s skull. The light was out, at least from
this world; a brute with a piece of iron pipe had extinguished it.</p>

<p class="pindent">Rachel put her arms about him and sought to beguile him
with caresses. And she succeeded, of course; he could not
refuse her love. So presently he slept a little. But Rachel did
not sleep, she lay holding him in her arms, because he would
jump and start in his sleep, his limbs would quiver—just the
way she felt when the great guns went off!</p>

<p class="pindent">What was Bunny doing? Fighting those brutes with their
clubs and hatchets and iron pipe? Or back in the old days,
when he had hovered over Paul and Ruth, watching events
that wrung his soul? Watching Dad deprive the family of their
land; watching the oil operators crush the first strike; watching
the government tear Paul away and make him into a strike-breaker
for Wall Street bankers; watching Vernon Roscoe
throw Paul into prison; watching capitalism with its world-wide
system of terror drive Paul here and there, harry him, malign
him, threaten him—until at last it hired the brute with the iron
pipe!</p>

<h3>VIII</h3>

<p class="pindent">Morning came, and they went back to the hospital room.
Nothing was changed. Paul still lay, breathing hoarsely; and
Ruth sat in a chair by the bedside, her eyes fixed upon him,
her hands clasped tightly. She was whiter, that was all, and
her lips were quivering, never still. The hospital nurse begged
her to lie down and rest, but she shook her head. No, she
was used to watching the sick; she was a nurse too. The other
answered that all nurses slept when they could; but no, please—Ruth
wanted to stay right here.</p>

<p class="pindent">The surgeon came again. There was nothing he could do,
time would have to tell. Bunny took him aside and asked what
were the chances. Impossible to say. If Paul were going to
get well, he would return to consciousness. If he were going
to die, there might be a meningitis, or perhaps a blood clot on
the brain.</p>

<p class="pindent">Rachel said the family ought to be notified. So Bunny
sent a telegram to Abel Watkins at Paradise, telling him to
engage an auto and bring the family at Bunny’s expense. He
debated whether it was his duty to telegraph Eli, and decided
not to. Old Mr. Watkins might do it, but Bunny would be
guided by what Paul would have wished. Then he got the
morning papers, and read their exultant account of the night’s
events: the reds had been taught a much-needed lesson, and
law and order were safe at the harbor.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was the morning of election day: the culmination of a
campaign that had been like a long nightmare to Bunny. Senator
LaFollette had been running, with the backing of the
Socialists, and the great issue had been the oil steals; the
indicted exposers of the crime against the criminals in power.
At first the exposers had really made some headway, the
people seemed to care. But the enemy was only waiting for
the time to strike. In the last three weeks of the campaign
he turned loose his reserves, and it was like a vast cloud of
hornets, the sky black with a swarm of stinging, turning,
poisoning lies!</p>

<p class="pindent">It was the money of Vernon Roscoe and the oil men, of
course: plus the money of the bankers and the power interests
and the great protected manufacturers, all those who had something
to gain by the purchase of government, or something to
lose by failure to purchase. Another fifty million dollar campaign;
and in every village and hamlet, in every precinct of
every city and town, there was a committee for the distribution
of terror. The great central factories where it was manufactured
were in Washington and New York, and the product was
shipped out wholesale, all over the land, and circulated by every
agency—newspapers and leaflets, mass-meetings, parades, bands,
red fire and torchlights, the radio and the moving picture screen.
If LaFollette, the red destroyer, were elected, business would
be smashed, the workers would be jobless; therefore vote for
that strong silent statesman, that great, wise, noble-minded
friend of the plain people known as “Cautious Cal.” And now,
while Paul Watkins lay gasping out his life, there was a snow-storm
of ballots falling over the land, nearly a thousand every
second. The will of the plain people was being made known.</p>

<h3>IX</h3>

<p class="pindent">It was a day like midsummer, and the windows of the hospital
room were open. Next door, some twenty feet away, was
an apartment house, and in the room directly across this space,
by the open window, was one of the two hundred thousand
radio sets which are in use in the state of California. The
occupant of the apartment was one of those two hundred
thousand housewives who are accustomed to perform their
domestic duties to the tune of “Jesus, Lover of My Soul,” or
else of “Flamin’ Mamie, Sure-fire Vamp.” There are a dozen
broadcasting stations within range, and some are always going,
and you can take your choice. This housewife had catholic
tastes, and the watchers at Paul’s bedside were beguiled by
snatches from the Aloha Hawaiian Quartette, and the Organ
Recital of the First Methodist Church, and the Piggly Wiggly
Girls’ Orchestra, and Radio QXJ reporting that a large vote
was being cast in the East, and Radio VZW offering second-hand
automobiles for sale, and an unidentified orator exhorting
all citizens to hurry to the polls, and Miss Elvira Smithers,
coloratura soprano, singing, “Ah loves you mah honey, yes
Ah doo-oo-oo-oo.”</p>

<p class="pindent">There came telephone calls from the Workers’ party, and
from the wobblies at the harbor. And newspaper reporters,
who politely listened to Bunny’s indignation at the raid, and
made a few notes, but published nothing, of course. The newspapers
of Angel City have a policy which any child can understand—they
never print news which injures or offends any
business interest.</p>

<p class="pindent">A telephone call from Paradise; Meelie Watkins, now Mrs.
Andy Bugner, calling. Her father and mother, with Sadie,
had gone to attend a revival meeting. Meelie didn’t know just
where it was, but would try to locate them. How was Paul?
And when Bunny told her, she asked had they summoned Eli.
Whether they believed in him or not, it was a fact that Eli was
a great healer; he had cured all sorts of people, and surely
should have a chance with his own brother! So Bunny sent
a telegram to Eli at the Tabernacle, telling him of Paul’s condition;
and two hours later a large and expensive limousine
stopped at the hospital door.</p>

<p class="pindent">Eli Watkins, Prophet of the Third Revelation, wore a cream
white flannel suit, which made his tall figure conspicuous. He
had adopted a pontifical air in these days of glory and power.
He did not shake hands with you, but fixed you with a pair
of large, prominent, bright blue eyes, and said, “The blessings
of the Lord upon you.” And when he was in the presence of
his brother, he stood gazing, but asking no questions; he was
not interested in X-ray pictures of skulls, the Lord knew all
that was needed. Finally he said, “I wish to be alone with
my brother.” There was no evident reason for denying that
request, so Bunny and Rachel and Ruth went out.</p>

<p class="pindent">It didn’t make any difference to Ruth where she was—there
was nothing to do but stare in front of her, with that terrible
quivering of her lips, that wrung your heartstrings. A
picture of dreadful grief! The doctor of the hospital begged
her to drink a little milk, and the nurse brought a glass, and
Ruth tasted, but she could not swallow it. There came a rush
of tears to her eyes. You couldn’t talk to her, or do anything
with her at all.</p>

<p class="pindent">Eli went away without saying a word; the ways of the Lord
being not always understandable by common mortals. There
was no apparent change in Paul’s condition. Ruth went back
to her vigil; but now the doctor gave an order, she must take
a sleeping powder and lie down; he would not permit her to
kill herself in his establishment. Being trained to take the
orders of doctors, Ruth was led away, and Bunny and Rachel
kept the vigil.</p>

<h3>X</h3>

<p class="pindent">Night fell. The householder who occupied the apartment
opposite their window came home and had his supper, and now,
comfortable in his shirtsleeves, with pipe in mouth, he sat in
a deep wicker chair in front of his radio set, and proceeded
to explore the circumambient ether. So the watchers by Paul’s
bedside got the news of the election without leaving their posts.
Owing to difference in time, California gets returns from the
east before it gets its own; but it was all the same this Tuesday
evening, east and west, the fifty million dollar campaign fund
had done its work, and wherever you listened, you learned that
more voters had cast their ballots for the strong silent statesman
than for all his opponents put together. And since that
was the thing ardently desired by the broadcasting stations,
and the great newspapers and churches and temples and tabernacles
which own them, there was a tone of jocularity in the
announcements, and after you had learned that Massachusetts
was going three to one for her favorite son, you would hear the
Six Jolly Jazz Boys proclaiming, “Got a hot little gal in a railroad
town!”—or perhaps the Chicago Comet, chuckling, “My
cutie’s due at two-to-two!” It made a cheerful atmosphere to
die in; but unfortunately Paul wasn’t hearing it.</p>

<p class="pindent">The Tabernacle of the Third Revelation on the air. Eli’s
followers were not concerned with elections, being soon to wing
their way to celestial regions which are conducted upon the
monarchical principle. They opened with an organ recital, and
the householder didn’t care for that, but preferred Radio VKZ,
program sponsored by the Snow Baby Soap Company, introducing
the first appearance in Angel City of the Pretty Pet Trio,
singing their latest popular melody hit, “My Little Jazz-baby,
Razz-baby Coon.” But later the householder tried the Tabernacle
again, and there was the bellowing voice of Eli, that all
California householders love. So Bunny and Rachel learned
what had been the meaning of Eli’s visit.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Brethren, the Lord has vouchsafed a wonderful proof of
His mercy to me. Glorious tidings He gives to the world
tonight! I have an older brother, the helpmate of my boyhood,
Paul by name, and he was brought up in the fear of the
Lord; the voice of the Most Highest was familiar to him on
the lonely hills where we tended our father’s flocks together.
Shepherd boys we were, sitting under the stars, awaiting a sign
of the Lord’s mercy, and praying for the lost ones of this
world to be saved from the devices of the great Tempter.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Brethren, this brother grew up, and he strayed from the
faith of his childhood, he fell into evil company, and became
a scoffer at the Lord’s Word. The love of our Savior Jesus
Christ was no longer in his heart, but hatred and strife and
jealousy of those to whom the Lord has revealed His Truth.
And, brethren, the ruin which this misguided brother sought
to bring upon others has fallen upon his own head, and tonight
he lies dying, struck down by the evil passions which he himself
incited. It was my painful task to go to his bedside, and
see him lying in a stupor.</p>

<p class="pindent">“But oh my friends, who can foresee the Wisdom of the
Lord? Who can understand His ways? It was His Will to
answer my prayers, and permit my lost brother to open his eyes,
and hear the voice of the Lord speaking by my lips, and to
answer, and confess his transgressions, and repent, and be
healed, and washed in the Blood of the Lamb. Glory hallelujah!
Glory! Though thy sins be as scarlet they shall become
as white as snow, blessed be the name of the Lord! Brethren,
rejoice with me; for I have found my sheep which was lost.
I say unto you that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one
sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine just
persons, which need no repentance. Hallelujah! Hallelujah!”</p>

<p class="pindent">All through this discourse you were aware of the murmur
and stir of a great crowd. They would break into ejaculations
at every pause in the prophet’s words; and now at the end
they drowned him out with a chorus of rejoicing, “Glory!
Glory, hallelujah!” And in the doorway of the hospital room
stood Ruth Watkins, having awakened from her sleep. She
was staring at Bunny with horrified eyes, and whispering,
“Oh, what a lie!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Yes, Bunny suspected that it was a lie; but he could not
prove it; and even if he could, what then? The radio is a one-sided
institution; you can listen, but you cannot answer back.
In that lies its enormous usefulness to the capitalist system.
The householder sits at home and takes what is handed to him,
like an infant being fed through a tube. It is a basis upon
which to build the greatest slave empire in history.</p>

<h3>XI</h3>

<p class="pindent">The householder shifted his dial. The returns from California
were beginning to come in. “Radio VXZ, the Angel
City Evening Howler, Angel City, California.” The announcer
had a soft, caressing voice, worth a thousand dollars a month
to him; it had a little chuckle which caused the children to
adore him—he went by the name of “Uncle Peter,” and told
them bed-time stories. Now he was applying his humor to the
returns. “Rosario, California. Hello! The home town of
Bob Buckman, secretary to the Chamber of Commerce! Let’s
see what Bob’s been doing! Rosario, 37 precincts out of 52
give LaFollette 117, Davis 86, Coolidge, 549. Well, well! If
Bob Buckman is listening in on VXZ, congratulations from
Uncle Peter—you’re a great little booster, Bob!”</p>

<p class="pindent">And then, startling the watchers by the bedside—“Paradise,
California. Now what do you think of that? The location of
the Ross Junior oil field, owned by Bunny Ross, our parlor
Bolshevik! Bunny’s the boy that bails out the political prisoners,
as he calls them; he publishes a little paper to dye our
college boys and girls pink. Let’s see what Little Bunny’s
town has to say to him. Paradise, California, 14 precincts
out of 29 give LaFollette 217, Davis 98, Coolidge 693. Well,
well, Bunny—you’ve got some more boring from within
to do!”</p>

<p class="pindent">The householder shifted again. “Radio QXJ, the Angel
City Evening Roarer, banjo solo by Bella Blue, the Witch
of Wicheta.” Plunkety-plunkety—plunkety-plunkety—plunk-plunk-plunk-plunk!</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul’s lips were beginning to move. There was a trace of
sound, and Ruth bent close to him. “He’s coming back to life!
Oh, call the doctor!” The hospital doctor came, and listened,
and felt Paul’s pulse; but he shook his head. It was merely
a question of what areas of the brain were affected; the speech
areas might be uninjured. The sounds were incoherent, and
the doctor said Paul didn’t know what he was saying. He
might stay that way for days, even for a week or two.</p>

<p class="pindent">But Ruth continued to listen, and try to catch a word. Paul
might be there, somehow, trying to speak to her, to convey
some request. She whispered, in an agony of longing, “Paul,
Paul, are you trying to talk to me?” The sounds grew louder,
and Rachel said, “It’s a foreign language.” Bunny said, “It
must be Russian”—the only foreign language Paul knew. It
was strange, like a corpse talking, or a wax doll; the sounds
seemed to come from deep in his throat. “Da zdrávstvooyet
Revolútziya!” over and over; and Bunny said, “That must mean
revolution.” And then, “Vsya vlast Soviétam!”—that must
have something to do with the Soviets!</p>

<p class="pindent">For an hour that went on; until suddenly Ruth exclaimed,
“Bunny, we ought to find out what he’s saying! Oh, surely
we ought to—just think, if he’s asking for help!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Rachel tried to argue with her; it was just a delirium. But
Ruth became more excited—she didn’t want Rachel to interfere.
Rachel had saved her man, and what did she know about
suffering? “I want to know what Paul’s saying! Can’t we
find somebody that knows Russian?” So Bunny got Gregor
Nikolaieff on the phone, and asked him to jump on the car and
come down here.</p>

<p class="pindent">When Bunny returned to the room, Paul was talking louder
than ever, but still moving only his lips. The Angel Jazz Choir
were shouting, “Honey-baby, honey-baby, kiss me in the neck!”
And Paul was saying again and again, “Nie troodyáshchiysia
da nie yest!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, Bunny,” pleaded Ruth, “We ought to write down what
he says! He might stop—and never speak again!” Bunny
understood—Ruth had been brought up to believe in revelations,
in words of awful import spoken on special occasions, in strange
languages or other unusual ways. The doctors might call it
delirium, but how could they be sure? Things that were hidden
from the wise were revealed to babes and sucklings. So Bunny
got out his notebook and fountain-pen, and wrote down what
Paul’s words sounded like, as near as he could guess. “Hliéba,
mira, svobódy!” And when Gregor came in, an hour or so
later, he was able to say this meant, “Bread, peace, freedom,”
the slogan of the Bolsheviks when they took possession of Russia:
and “Dayesh positziyu!”—that was a war-cry of the red
army, commanding the enemy to give up the position. The
other things Paul had been saying were phrases of the revolution,
that he had heard first in Siberia, and then in Moscow.
No, Paul was not trying to talk to his sister; he was telling the
young workers of America what the young workers of Russia
were doing!</p>

<h3>XII</h3>

<p class="pindent">“Radio VXZ, the Angel City Evening Howler, Winitsky’s
orchestra, in the main dining-room of the Admiralty Hotel,
broadcasting by remote control.” And then presently “Radio
QXJ, the Evening Roarer,” giving election returns—big figures
now. “Republican Campaign Headquarters in New York, in
a bulletin issued at 1 A. M., estimates that Calvin Coolidge has
carried Massachusetts by 400,000 plurality—hooray for the
Old Bay State! And New York by 900,000—three cheers for
the Empire State—ray, ray, ray! And Illinois by—wait a
minute there, somebody’s knocked my glasses off—they’re pulling
the rough stuff in this studio. Behave yourselves, girls,
don’t you know the world’s listening in on QXJ tonight? Illinois
by 900,000. Whoopee! That noise you hear is the Chicago
Comet yelping for his home state! It’s time we heard the
Chicago Comet again—sing us a hot one, Teddy—that little
warble about the street car comin’ along. You know what I
mean?” A broad, jolly Negro voice answered, “Yessah, Ah
knows! Yessah, hyar Ah goes!” Plunkety-plunk—</p>


          <div class="poetry-container" style="">
          <div class="lgp"> <!-- rend=';' -->
<div class="stanza-outer">
<p class="line0">“Ah had some one befoah Ah had you</p>
<p class="line0">  An’ Ah’ll have someone aftah you’s gone,</p>
<p class="line0">A street car or a sweetheart doan’ mattah to me,</p>
<p class="line0">  There’ll be another one comin’ along!”</p>
</div>
</div></div> <!-- end poetry block --><!-- end rend -->

<p class="pindent">Six or seven years ago the people of the United States in
their sovereign wisdom had passed a law forbidding the sale of
alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes. But the advocates of
law and order reserve to themselves the privilege of deciding
which laws they will obey, and the prohibition act is not among
them. All ruling class America celebrates its political victories
by getting drunk. Bunny knew how it was, having got drunk
himself four years ago when President Harding had been
elected; he could smile appreciatively when the announcer of
QXJ tripped over his syllables—“Thass not polite now, Polly,
quit your shovin’ this micro-hiccrophone!”</p>

<p class="pindent">The householder next door was a workingman, or clerk, or
such humble being, denied the royal privilege of breaking the
law at ten dollars a quart for gin and thirty for champagne.
But he could sit here till after midnight, and turn from one
studio to another, and enjoy a series of vicarious jags. “Radio
VXZ, the main dining-room of the Admiralty Hotel.” A
chanteuse from the Grand Guignol in Paris was singing a
ballad, and you could hear the laughter of those who understood
the obscenity, and those who pretended to understand it,
and those who were too drunk to understand anything but how
to laugh. Bunny was there in his mind, because it was in this
dining-room that he had been drunk, and Dad had been drunk,
and Vee Tracy and Annabelle Ames and Vernon Roscoe—and
Harvey Manning sound asleep in his chair, and Tommy Paley
trying to climb onto the table, and having to be kept from fighting
the waiters. There were three hundred tables in that
hall, all reserved a month in advance, and all with occupants
in the same condition; the tables stacked with hip-pocket flasks
and bottles, strewn with the ashes of cigarettes, the stains of
spilled foods, flowers and confetti, and little rolls of tissue-paper
tape thrown from one table to another, covering the
room with a spider’s web of bright colors; toy balloons tossing
here and there; music, a riot of singing and shouting, and men
sprawling over half-naked women, old and young, flappers,
and mothers and grandmothers of flappers.</p>

<p class="pindent">There would be election returns read, more of those
triumphant, glorious majorities for the strong silent statesman;
and a magnate who knew that this victory meant several million
dollars off his income taxes, or an oil concession in Mesopotamia
or Venezuela won by American bribes and held by
American battleships—such a man would let out a whoop, and
get up in the middle of the floor and show how he used to dance
the double shuffle when he was a farm-hand; and then he would
fall into the lap of his mistress with a million dollars worth of
diamonds on her naked flesh, and the singer from a famous
haunt of the sexual perverts of Berlin would perform the latest
jazz success, and the oil magnate and his mistress would warble
the chorus:</p>


          <div class="poetry-container" style="">
          <div class="lgp"> <!-- rend=';' -->
<div class="stanza-outer">
<p class="line0">What do I do?</p>
<p class="line0">I toodle-doodle-doo,</p>
<p class="line0">I toodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doo!</p>
</div>
</div></div> <!-- end poetry block --><!-- end rend -->

<h3>XIII</h3>

<p class="pindent">Paul moved one hand: and again Ruth cried in excitement—he
was coming back to life! But the nurse said that meant
nothing, the doctors had said he might move. They must not
let him move his head. She took his temperature, but told
them nothing.</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul’s hands were straying over the sheet that covered him;
aimlessly, here and there, as if he were picking at insects on
the bed. His voice rose louder—Russian, always Russian, and
Gregor would tell what the words meant. They were in the
red square, and saw the armies marching, and heard the working
masses shouting their slogans: they were on the playing
fields with the young workers; they were in Siberia, with Mandel
playing the balalaika, and having his eyes eaten out by ants.
“Da zdrávstvooyet Revolútziya!”—that meant “Long live Revolution!”
“Vsya vlast Soviétam!—All power to the Soviets!”</p>

<p class="pindent">And from there they would be swept to the ballroom of the
Emperor Hotel, Angel City, Radio RWKY, the Angel City
Patriot broadcasting by direct control. Or was it to the heart
of the Congo, where the naked savages danced to the music of
the tomtom, their black bodies, smeared with palm oil, shining
in the light of blazing fires? For a hundred centuries these
savages had paddled the river, and never to the mind of one of
them had come the thought of an engine; they had stood on
the shores of mighty lakes, and never dreamed a sail. The
weight of nature’s blind fecundity rested upon them, stifling
their minds. And now capitalist civilization, rushing to destruction
with the speed of its fastest battle-planes, cast about to
find a form of expression for its irresistible will to degeneracy,
and chose the tomtom of the Congo for its music, and the
belly-dances of the Congo for its exercise, and so here was
America, Land of Jazz.</p>

<p class="pindent">A voice from the megaphone, raucous, shrill, and mocking:</p>


          <div class="poetry-container" style="">
          <div class="lgp"> <!-- rend=';' -->
<div class="stanza-outer">
<p class="line0">  “There’s where mah money goes,</p>
<p class="line0">Lipsticks and powderpuffs and sucha things like that!”</p>
</div>
</div></div> <!-- end poetry block --><!-- end rend -->

<p class="pindent">And Bunny was in that great “Emperor” ballroom, where
he had danced so many a night, first with Eunice Hoyt and then
with Vee Tracy. All his friends would be there tonight—Verne
and Annabelle and Fred Orpan and Thelma Norman and Mrs.
Pete O’Reilly and Mark Eisenberg—the cream of the plutocracy,
celebrating their greatest triumph to date. There would
be American flags and streamers on the walls, and some would
wave little flags—a great patriotic occasion—nothing like it
since the Armistice—ray for Coolidge, keep cool with Cal! The
room would be crowded to suffocation, and by this hour nine-tenths
of the dancers would be staggering. Large-waisted
financiers with crumpled shirt-fronts, hugging stout wives or
slender mistresses, with naked backs and half-naked bosoms
hung with diamonds and pearls, red paint plastered on their
lips and platinum bangles in their ears, shuffling round and
round to the thump of the tomtom, the wail of the saxophone,
the rattle and clatter of sticks, the banging of bells and snarl of
stopped trumpets. “She does the camel-walk!” shrilled the
singer; and the hip and buttock muscles of the large-waisted
financier would be alternately contracted and relaxed, and his
feet dragged about the floor in the incoordinate reactions of
locomotor ataxia and spastic paraplegia.</p>

<h3>XIV</h3>

<p class="pindent">Paul had begun to thresh his arms about: it was necessary
to hold him, and when they tried it, he began to fight back. Did
he think the strike-guards at Paradise had seized him? Or
was it the jailors at San Elido? Or the Federal secret service
agents? Or the French gendarmes? Or the sailors of the
fleet? Or the thugs with hatchets and iron pipe? He fought
with maniacal fury, and there was Bunny holding down one
arm and Gregor the other, with Ruth and Rachel each clinging
to one foot, while the nurse came running with a straight jacket.
So with much labor they tied him fast. He would make terrific
efforts; his face would turn purple, and the cords would
stand out in his neck; but the system had got him, he could not
escape.</p>

<p class="pindent">Meantime, through the open window, Radio VXZ, the main
dining-room of the Admiralty Hotel; a blended sound of many
hundreds of people, shouting, singing, cheering, now and then
smashing a plate, or pounding on the table. Some one was
making a speech to the assembly, but he was so drunk he could
hardly talk, and they were so drunk they could not have understood
anyhow. One got snatches—“glorish victry—greatesh!
country—soun instooshns—greatesh man ever in White Housh—Cautioush
Cal—ray for Coolidge!” A storm of cheers, yells,
laughter—and the voice of the announcer, drunk also: “Baby
Belle, hottes’ lill babe, sing us hot one, right off griddle. Go
to it, Babe, I’ll hold you!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Yes, the announcer was drunk, the very radio was drunk,
the instruments would not send the wave-lengths true, the
ether could not carry them straight, they wavered and wiggled;
the laws of the physical universe had gone staggering, God was
drunk on His Throne, so pleased by the election of the greatesh
man ever in White Housh. Bunny, dazed with exhaustion, saw
the scene through a blur of sound and motion, the shining
mouths of trumpets, the waving of flags, the flashing of electric
signs, the cavorting of satyrs, the prancing of savages, the
jiggling of financiers and their mistresses simulating copulation.
Baby Belle was unsteady before the microphone, you lost parts
of her song at each stagger; but snatches came, portraying the
nymphomania of “Flamin’ Mamie, sure-fire vamp—hottes’ baby
in the town—some scorcher—love’s torture—gal that burns
’em down!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“Oh, God! Oh, God!” cried Ruth. “He’s trying to speak
to me!” And so for an instant it seemed. Paul’s one eye had
come open, wild and frightful; he lifted his head, he made a
choking noise—</p>

<p class="pindent">“Comes to lovin’—she’s an oven!” shrilled the radio voice.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Paul! What is it?” shrieked Ruth.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Ain’t it funny—paper money burns right in her hand!”</p>

<p class="pindent">Paul sank back, he gave up, and Ruth, her two hands clasped
as if praying to him, seemed to follow with her soul into that
far-away place where he was going.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Flamin’ Mamie, workin’ in a mine, ate a box o’ matches
at the age o’ nine!”</p>

<p class="pindent">“He’s dead! He’s dead!” Ruth put her hand over Paul’s
heart, and then started up with a scream.</p>

<p class="pindent">“Flamin’ Mamie, sure-fire vamp,” reiterated the chorus,
“hottes’ baby in the town!”</p>

<p class="pindent">And Ruth rushed to the window, and threw herself—no, not
out, because Bunny had been too quick for her; the others
helped to hold her, and the nurse came running with a hypodermic
needle, and in a few minutes she was lying on a cot at
the side of the room, looking as dead as her brother.</p>

<p class="pindent">And the householder turned to Radio RWKY, the Angel
City Patriot broadcasting from its own studio. “Latest bulletin
from New York, the Republican Central Committee claims that
Calvin Coolidge will have the greatest plurality ever cast in
American history, close to eighteen million votes. Good-night,
friends of Radioland.”</p>

<h3>XV</h3>

<p class="pindent">The Communists wanted to have a “Red funeral,” to make
a piece of propaganda out of Paul’s death. But Eli interposed
his majestic authority; since Paul had repented his evil ways
and come back to Jesus, he should be buried according to the
rites of the Third Revelation.</p>

<p class="pindent">So three days later a little pageant wound its way to the
top of one of the hills of Paradise. There was a crowd on
hand, and a truck with the necessary radio apparatus—never
were any of the precious words of Eli lost nowadays; the two
hundred thousand radio housewives of California had been
notified by the newspapers, and a hundred and ninety thousand
of them had put off their marketing to hear this romantic
funeral service. Bunny and Rachel and a handful of the reds
stood to one side, knowing they were not welcome. Ruth stood
near the grave with the weeping family, having on each side,
of her a sturdy oil worker—her two brothers-in-law, Andy
Bugner and Jerry Black—because she had been violent on occasions,
and no one knew what she might do. She was white and
fearful in looks, but seemed not to realize the meaning of the
big hole dug in the ground, or of the long black box covered
with flowers. While Eli was preaching his fervid sermon about
the prodigal son who returned, and about the strayed lamb
which was found, Ruth stood gazing at the white clouds moving
slowly behind the distant hilltops.</p>

<p class="pindent">She would make them no more trouble. All she wanted was
to wander over these hills, and call now and then for the sheep
which were no longer there. Sometimes she called Paul, and
sometimes she called Bunny, and so they let her wander; until
one day she went calling Joe Gundha. The oil workers who
were putting up the new derricks and cleaning out the burned
wells to put them back on production were new men to the
Ross Junior tract—it is the Roscoe Junior tract now, by the
way, one of Vernon Roscoe’s four sons being in charge of the
job. These new men had never heard about the “roughneck”
who had fallen into the discovery well, so they paid no attention
to the unhappy girl who wandered here and there calling
his name.</p>

<p class="pindent">It was not till late that night, when Ruth was missing, and
the family making a search, that some one told of hearing her
call Joe Gundha. Meelie remembered right away, and they put
down a hook in the discovery well, which was having to be
drilled again, and they brought up a piece of Ruth’s dress; so
they put down a three-pronged grab, and brought up the rest
of her, and Eli came again, and they buried her alongside Paul,
and with Joe Gundha not far away.</p>

<p class="pindent">You can see those graves, with a picket fence about them,
and no derrick for a hundred feet or more. Some day all those
unlovely derricks will be gone, and so will the picket fence and
the graves. There will be other girls with bare brown legs
running over those hills, and they may grow up to be happier
women, if men can find some way to chain the black and cruel
demon which killed Ruth Watkins and her brother—yes, and
Dad also: an evil Power which roams the earth, crippling the
bodies of men and women, and luring the nations to destruction
by visions of unearned wealth, and the opportunity to enslave
and exploit labor.</p>